{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf1\f0\fs20 The hounds were barking, whining, almost crying with anticipation as they strained against their owner\rquote s whiplike hempen cords. If they weren\rquote t released soon, they\rquote d strangle themselves, drunk on the smell of desperation; Hoar imaged he could smell it too. \par
\ldblquote There she is. There she is!\rdblquote  Crater was craning to see over the crowds, hand fluttering against Hoar\rquote s chest to get his attention like a sparrow with its leg caught in a briar. If Crater had to bounce on the balls of his feet to see the Vaicour girl, then there was not point in Hoar trying. Crater\rquote s eyes flicked to his friend. For once, he\rquote d eschewed his rifle. Hoar suspected his mother may have had to tie him down and pry it off him with a shim and a tub of bear grease, some of which was used to slick his hair down later.\par
Hoar only had eyes for the wolf chained to the pole driven a meter into the bare earth of the town square. It was an iron chain, of course, that cut into the neck of the beast which was shifting from bloody foot to bloody foot. They\rquote d cut its hamstrings last night, and bound its muzzle inside a wire cage. No one wanted the hunting dogs to be injured. That wouldn\rquote t be fair.\par
\ldblquote Well go say something to her. Go on,\rdblquote  Gili prodded Crater in the back. \par
He turned, uncharacteristically uncertain. \ldblquote Do you really think I should?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes, you fool, before someone else beats you too it.\rdblquote  Crater still wavered so Gili rolled her eyes and prodded, \ldblquote I heard Parseek likes black skin.\rdblquote\par
In a second, Crater\rquote s spine was as straight as a rifle barrel and he waded into the gaily colored crowd with determination.\par
\ldblquote That was easy,\rdblquote  smirked Gili as she slid into the gap left by Crater. Hoar glanced at her, then returned his attention to the wolf. The troupers moved onto their second to last song. It wouldn\rquote t be long now. \ldblquote What\rquote s wrong with you? You look like someone died. I mean you always look like that, but this time it looks like it was really horrible.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m fine,\rdblquote  he muttered. Little red faced Anker, struck the first chords of \ldblquote Fair Frost Bridesmaid\rdblquote  Gorgem lifted her steel over whetstone husky voice. \par
If Hoar had been watching, he would have witnessed the effort it took Gili to catch and wrestle into submission her automatic, sarcastic retort. \ldblquote The Trader\rquote s leaving for the delta tomorrow. Crater\rquote s going with him.\rdblquote  Hoar nodded. Crater had said his goodbyes already. \ldblquote Obviously,\rdblquote  continued Gili. \ldblquote The Trader said he knows a veever looking for apprentices.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote That\rquote s a big opportunity,\rdblquote  Hoar said, noncommittally. \par
\ldblquote Obviously. Yes. I was thinking I might go too. I still haven\rquote t decided.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What\rquote s holding you back?\rdblquote  Hoar asked. The pink flecks about the wolf\rquote s muzzle where they\rquote d torn out its teeth was the same color as Roa\rquote s handkerchief on bad days. \par
\ldblquote Nothing. Just\'85\rdblquote  Gili took a deep breath, and said quietly \ldblquote I never thanked you, by the way. For what you did last week.\rdblquote  \par
Hoar nodded distractedly still not taking his eyes off the wolf, \ldblquote It was nothing,\rdblquote\par
Irritation tugged at the corners of her mouth but she tried again, still keeping her tone soft,\ldblquote I mean I know you got in trouble and Parseek\rquote s can be a real bastard and you didn\rquote t have to and I appreciate what you did for me.\rdblquote  \par
 \ldblquote I shouldn\rquote t have hit him,\rdblquote  Hoar said and felt the void that had been frozen inside him flex. He looked away, and tried to lose himself in Gorgem\rquote s song. \par
 \ldblquote Hey, look at me.\rdblquote  Hoar glanced in her direction, then slid back down to the ground. \ldblquote Look at me. Parseek\rquote s a big, bullying bastard and you laid him out like he deserved.\rdblquote\par
 \ldblquote He knew the truth about me,\rdblquote  \par
 \ldblquote Parseek doesn\rquote t know the truth of his own asshole,\rdblquote  barked Gili, her unusually patient tone wearing thin.\par
\ldblquote He was right about what I am,\rdblquote  Hoar mumbled to his feet. \par
\ldblquote And what exactly is that?\rdblquote  Gili said, planting herself in front of Hoar so close that they were almost touching. Hoar suddenly realized that Gili was wearing a new dress with an exceptionally low cut bodice and began to color. His propriety warred with his aversion to eye contact and his propriety won. Gili\rquote s green eyes flashed. \ldblquote What? A vendigore? Was that what you were so brilliantly failing to say? Are you out of your mind?\rdblquote  Hoar tried to step back but Gili followed along sticking to him like wasps after a bear. \ldblquote You think Parseek\rquote s right and your some kind of monster? You are the thickest man I know and that\rquote s including Crater. I come with you to the harvest festival, spend all day cheering your gloomy ass up, can\rquote t you see that I\rquote m trying to tell you thank you?\rdblquote  Hoar didn\rquote t catch her last second, hummingbird\rquote s heartbeat transition to \ldblquote thank you.\rdblquote   \par
\ldblquote I\rquote m sorry,\rdblquote  Hoar stuttered, taking another step back. This time, Gili allowed him to but some distance between them. She was looking up at him, the last chorus of \ldblquote Fair Frost Bridesmaid leaping from person to person in the drunken crowd. Her face was flushed and her eyes searching his for something. Whatever it was, she didn\rquote t find it. \ldblquote A human wouldn\rquote t have hit him,\rdblquote  Hoar said, and the hollow inside him groaned under the strain. \par
This was not the answer she was looking for. \ldblquote Then thank God you\rquote re an Azil because someone needed to hit him and if lying about saying your sorry is what humans do then I\rquote m glad you\rquote re a monster.\rdblquote\par
The crowd roared their approval as the song died away and the kennel masters led their hounds into the field, toward the waiting wolf. Whatever structure inside him held back the black floodwaters broke, the tide punching through the hollowed out wall where Gili\rquote s words had struck like hammer blows. He turned his back and against the surge of people crowding toward the post plunged into the earth at the heart of the village, he did not feel her hand grab for his, nor over the drunken revelry an the mad, joyous, baying of the hounds did he hear her shout, \ldblquote I didn\rquote t mean it like that. Hoar, Hoar! I\rquote m sorry!\rdblquote  \par
\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\sl252\slmult1\qc ***\par
\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\sl252\slmult1 He found Gili leaning against the temporary fence as if she could force it into the ground, suffocating it in barren, stony earth. Given the black mood that hung about her, it was not a surprise that she was an island amid the swell of people. Those around her instinctively headed for safer, preferably beerier waters, despite her provocative dress and the seemingly inviting empty spaces to either side. Crater slammed into one heavily, rocking the fencing angrily with his weight. Gili didn\rquote t bother to look up, her bloody attention was fixed on the fight. One of the three hounds, a big, grey mastiff that looked to weigh almost as much as the wolf, had its bloody jaws interlocked with the wolves. A smaller hound hung off the wolf\rquote s leg, dragging it inexorably down to the red flecked ground where it would die. \par
\ldblquote Girls,\rdblquote  snarled Crater. \ldblquote She looked like she wanted to puke the entire time I was talking, pleasant as you like- I even asked her if she wanted to see the wolf baiting up close and do you know what she did?\rdblquote  Gili grunted something which might have been a question and Crater barreled on. \ldblquote She ran off! Just like that!\rdblquote  Gili\rquote s lip curled in sympathy. The third and smallest dog hit the ground in a spray of red. Whimpering it tried to get to its three good legs and collapsed in the dust. Its owner ran forward bellowing oaths to scoop it up, away from the wolf which was snapping at the warry grey mastiff. Another hound, Parseek\rquote s great shaggy white creature half as tall as Gili, bounded forward to cheers from the onlookers. \par
\ldblquote Just like that,\rdblquote  echoed Gili, savagely. Crater grunted something which might have been affirmation. Parseek\rquote s beast hit the wolf in the side, bowling it over. The other dogs leapt in, and the wolf wailed a long, terrible, howl. The kennel masters released the remaining dogs which charged in tripping over one another in their eagerness. They couldn\rquote t see the wolf now, only the shunting, thrusting backs of the dogs bearing over it like piglets at a sows teats. They could hear it however. It didn\rquote t sound remotely like the wolf it had been, giving its last, terrified breaths in a high keening scream that was suddenly cut off. The white hound\rquote s nose came up red and the crowd roared. Revulsion hit Gili, coming out of nowhere, like a red fletching feathering her chest. \ldblquote Goddamn it, I\rquote m going to find him,\rdblquote  she said, and turned away from the sport. \par
\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\sl252\slmult1\qc\par
\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\sl252\slmult1 Behind the store Crater\rquote s family ran, Hoar cradled the svelsa. He\rquote d closed his eyes as if by doing so he could shut out all sound and be alone with his grandfather\rquote s tune winding through his head and hands echoing back from the hearth so many years ago. He wished he\rquote d listened to his grandmother and stayed away. His frown deepened at his stupidity. The chance to be part of the crowd, to be just one cell in the living, breathing mass of people had been to enticing. And Gili had almost begged him to come, so she wouldn\rquote t have to be alone with Crater. So that was what she thought of him. He should have known, he thought. The signs were all there. If that was what Gili, one of his closest friends thought, then the rest of the villagers must think even worse of him. He should never have come. Like an old soldier putting down his musket for the last time, Hoar stopped playing. \par
\ldblquote Please don\rquote t stop.\rdblquote  He almost jumped out of his skin. There was a girl standing a bare three paces away from him and he hadn\rquote t heard her approach which itself was a wonder. She was slim, almost waifish, with the darkest skin Hoar had ever seen. It was almost the color of Rand\rquote s syrup, the kind made just after a thaw when the sap is rushing and all the world is melting. She was tall, willowy and lovely as an aurora. \ldblquote You\rquote re beautiful,\rdblquote  she said in a thick Vaicouric accent, a small smile emerging like a tentative sunrise. Hoar found to his horror that he was blushing, and so was the girl. She raised her hand to her lips, as if she could take back the words. \ldblquote Lithag,\rdblquote  she swore in a decidedly unlady like manner, \ldblquote Playing. Your playing is beautiful.\rdblquote  Hoar wondered how long she\rquote d been speaking Golemel. \par
\ldblquote It\rquote s all right,\rdblquote  Hoar said, feeling something unfamiliar tugging at the corners of his lips. No wonder she thought the song was beautiful, she couldn\rquote t understand the words. He\rquote d thought it was beautiful once too. \ldblquote Who are you?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Saskia. Who are you?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Hoar,\rdblquote  he said, wishing he wasn\rquote t. Then he wished he knew what to say. Crater was always better in situations like these, he was quick and witty and people liked him. \ldblquote What are you doing back here?\rdblquote  Hoar asked, and cringed when Saskia\rquote s face darkened.\par
\ldblquote I don\rquote t like lots of people,\rdblquote  she said, waving halfheartedly behind her.  A long, terrible howl split the cool evening air and both Hoar and Saskai flinched as if it were their throats being torn. Hoar could only nod, not trusting himself to speak. He thought that if he opened his mouth, he might cough up blood rather than intelligent conversation. To his surprise, the girl looked on the verge of tears, or of being sick. Her delicate hands clenched so tightly on the folds of her clothing every time the wolf cried he was afraid the bones might burst free from their tendons and break through their jacket of skin. Hoar could think of only one thing to do. He played the opening notes of \ldblquote Fair Frost Bridesmaid,\rdblquote  and sang. He did not play it as Gorgem had, bright and loud enough for every man and woman in Hrult to hear and sing along, but slowly, hauntingly; the requiem of a life\rquote s line he could hold onto even in the storm tossed sea of uncaring sound that buffeted and battered him. Saskia crossed the three steps that separated them and sat with him, holding the vigil with him clinging tight to the melody that could not be drowned out, no matter how the village roared. \par
\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\sl252\slmult1\qc There was a man from across the sea,\par
come to keep the vow he\rquote d made\par
\ldblquote The muse of ice will be mine,\rdblquote  swore he,\par
\ldblquote I\rquote ll catch me a frost bridesmaid\rdblquote\par
\par
He scoured the crags but o\rquote re every hill\par
Heard naught but the wind\rquote s sad tune.\par
Till at last he rested beside a rill\par
Beneath the harvest moon.\par
\par
He sat and brewed for a very long time,\par
Till heaven let loose with snow\par
And on the wind rode a song like rime\par
Heralding a lovely doe\par
\par
She shed to the bank her snow white skin,\par
Laid her hart by the mountain stream,\par
And revealed the beautiful girl within\par
Beyond his wildest dream\par
\par
She sang, as she bathed, a lilting tune\par
That near tore his soul apart\par
So the hunter leapt forth, \lquote neath a waning moon\par
And stole the silken hart\par
\par
She wept, she raged, she beat at his breast\par
But the man had iron will\par
\ldblquote To tame a frost bride is my test\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m the master of your soul.\rdblquote\par
\par
FINISH SONG\par
\par
\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\sl252\slmult1\tab The boy who hoarded words as if each cost the Azil price and the girl who knew precious few words in this foreign, violent tongue and shared even fewer sat together as night sky filled up with stars and Hoar\rquote s voice carried them far away. He was glad she didn\rquote t understand the words. They were awful words, and lies. But Hoar\rquote s grandfather had once told him If you get your head right, you can see the truth the lies were cut and crafted from, and Hoar always listened to people\rquote s lies. This was a lie of love and life, over the truth of power and death. A creature so fragile all it took was the heat of a man\rquote s breath to melt her away. He let his strings fall silent and looked with solemn hazel at the Vaircour girl so far from home. She was looking back at him, the pained expression thawed away revealing stunning, brown eyes flecked with copper, like starlight. Wordlessly, she reached out and touched his chest with three fingers and thumb. \ldblquote Beautiful,\rdblquote  she said.\par
\tab\ldblquote Hoar? Is that you? I thought I\rquote d heard your playing.\rdblquote  Gili rounded the corner of the storefront and saw the two standing side by side. Saskia whipped her hand away to cover her mouth. Hoar drew the svelsa close and made to push himself to his feet. \ldblquote Oh, don\rquote t let me interrupt you,\rdblquote  Gili said, color rising. \par
\tab\ldblquote You\rquote re not interrupting anything,\rdblquote  Hoar said, fervently wishing that Gili had waited just a minute longer before interjecting herself into his life once more. \par
\ldblquote Crater and I are leaving at first light with the Trader tomorrow. I just thought you\rquote d like to know. Crater will want to say goodbye.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s good. You\rquote ve always wanted to become a veever,\rdblquote  he said, stonily. He rose, and gave half nods to Gili and Saskia. Then, he left. Gili turned to Saskia, switching to Vaicouic and raising a smile like brigands hoisting the Angel\rquote s flag as they crept just close enough to a merchant vessel. \par
\ldblquote You\rquote re new to Hrult, I hear. Why don\rquote t I guide you, show you how things are done around here?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Thank you,\rdblquote  Saskia said, palpably relieved at the sound of her own language. \par
\ldblquote Maybe you don\rquote t have Vendigore down on the delta, but the boy you just met, he was one. It\rquote s best to avoid them.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What is a Vendigoe?\rdblquote  asked Saskia, looking politely confused.\par
 \ldblquote Azil? Ursar? It\rquote s called a Sleepless in Vaicouric, obviously.\rdblquote\par
\pard\fi180\li90\cf0\f1\par
}
