{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\cf1\f0\fs20 A flash, and then, a crack. Not the greedy crack of ice giving way beneath an unwary boot, but the sullen, capitulation of something too old, and too worn to be of use. An instant later, Hoar\rquote s right ski tore free and momentum took over. For an instant he defied gravity, seemingly floating down the unmarred slopes.  The craggy planes of his face, scarred by sixty years of Golemel winds, had time to register split second surprise, then gravity reasserted itself and he crashed into the ground. One leg, still trapped in a tangle of wood, leather and metal gave a sullen pop as it twisted while the boot remained locked in place. The heavy, fur lined boots were new. He\rquote d haggled them out of the Trader up from Vanholm three years ago, and they\rquote d finally broken into the cozy, supple shape that was just right. For six fox pelts, the trader had thrown in new steel clasps for his cloak. \par
The weight of the carcass strapped to his back slammed down, crushing the remaining air from his lungs. He skidded forward in the snow, his head and shoulders the anchor that dragged him to a bone jarring halt. And everything was still.\par
Slowly, like mist dissipating on a weeping morning when the icicles drip and snow grows heavy, the world came back into stinging white focus. He couldn\rquote t breathe. Hoar heaved the deer off to one side, in a grunting, joint popping effort. Lined doeskin gloves fumbled at the straps of the harness cutting into his chest. His stunned lungs spasmed, sucking in snow only to be violently coughed back up. The last buckle came free and the pack rolled away entirely. The old man curled into a ball, gulping in long breaths in the embrace of his cloak, just waiting for the terrible ache in his neck to lessen and the throb in the bones of the arm he\rquote d tried to break his fall with to ease. The cloak was a wolf pelt, silver grey like the wisps of cirrus hair that clung to Hoar\rquote s head, and held rather more firmly by a steel clasp, forged in a three braided knot. It was not a pretty fur, the kind the Trader would sell to Vaicour fops wanting to impress their friends. Old, ragged and riddled with the wounds of living it looked like what might remain in a Kirch dog fighting pit after the victor had been dragged out. And like a Veever who never gave up on a patient, Hoar had stitched the holes and tears closed as if to let them heal. But three he\rquote d left. Three long, scorched punctures that making of which still burned in his memory as if decades were days. They had not killed the wolf. There was no mark of the killing steel head, only a hollow where the right eye had glared at Hoar with hate and hunger and desperation just before he let the bowstring go. \par
Last summer, when the passes were open, he\rquote d given the Trader a necklace of bear teeth and a jar of its grease for new bow strings and twelve sharp steel heads, thinking the fall would be bountiful. The lump of his quiver, full of unneeded arrows, pressed against his hip. He had been foolish. He\rquote d only needed six, and he wished he had bought extra rice from Arenholm. Now, he doubted he\rquote d make it through the winter. It wasn\rquote t just the fall; it was the autumn. Seven out of ten traps had been barren and hunting hadn\rquote t fared much better. He\rquote d been out three days longer than he\rquote d meant on this expedition, and the deer in the herd had been skinny. Not as skinny as the wolves, which by midwinter would be little more than hunger held together by bones and skin. Hoar wondered if the wolves would outlast him. It was comfortable where he lay. Warm. Hoar closed his eyes, snowflake preludes to the first real blizzard catching in his eyelashes and melting on his skin. For the thousandth time, he wondered what it would be like to sleep, to slip into the Long Dream. It wouldn\rquote t be painful, like his father and grandfather\rquote s deaths. It would be easy. Especially here in this bed of snow where the air was thin tasted of copper. It was the first real snow of the winter. He remembered resting his head on his grandmother\rquote s lap while she hummed a lullaby and drifted off to sleep. He\rquote d tried and tried to sleep but it had been so hard then. He always gave up when Roa\rquote s lilting voice broke into wracking coughs. \par
Hoar opened his eyes. He was staring into his reflection, distorted and bloodshot in the glassy mirror of the dead deer\rquote s eyes. She hadn\rquote t seen the white wolf with a steel knot holding its skin in place. Hadn\rquote t heard the whistle of ash and steel until it was too late. Hadn\rquote t the strength to run more than a kilometer before her bloody, staggering steps through the endless sea of snow had come to an end. If it hadn\rquote t been for him, it would still be alive. Hoar stopped humming. He needed to move.\par
Hoar heaved himself up, the familiar choir of pain in his back protesting in harmony to the fresh melody of pain from neck, arm and leg. He gritted his teeth as his weight returned to the damaged leg but his chance to lay down had passed and there was no chance of rice in moaning over a bit of pain. What had passed had passed. He undid the boot still stuck in the ski harness and surveyed the fallout. Holes in the snow and half buried equipment stuck out of the drifts like the ribs of storm wrecked ships. \par
He took a deep breath, hauled his creaking joins straight, and hum the opening bars of the first song to come to mind. Cannadray. The lullaby resurrected gentle memories, like a hand, white as alyssum, pushing up from beneath the ground. It soothed him, as long as he didn\rquote t think. He found the yegaatek mask, bone carved goggles with a slit over each eye he wore to keep the snow from blinding him, and strapped it back over his skull. He gathered up the too full quiver of arrows, fletching red against the snow. The pot of dye, and a skin of summer brandy from Kirch were had for a scrimshaw hart, two rabbit pelts and a story from before the days before the Unification. The brandy had lasted nearly two months, the dye would hold out for another two years, and the story would last forever, or until Hoar had no one else to tell it too. \par
He ordered everything by the scrawny doe, gutted and lolling pathetically against straps that held her tightly to a wooden frame. Miraculously, the frame had survived the fall unscathed. Rice or no, with she\rquote d get him through the winter. If he could make the journey home. \par
Far more slowly than he would have even ten years ago, he knelt to examine the broken camber ski. One leather strap dangled uselessly, fluttering in the wind like the charms they hung in the village to ward off evil spirits. Where there should have been a thin, steel pin hammered shut, there was a hole. He scowled at it the ski, stained the same reddish brown as the body of the svelsa that haunted his home. \par
Hoar\rquote s svelsa had come from the Trader. Like all Vaicour, he\rquote d called it a lute but he was wrong. It was a svelsa. Battered, with a slightly crooked neck, like Hoar\rquote s, and two frets needed to be held firm with wire, it was still a svelsa. It was not as beautiful as the one his grandfather had played a thousand, thousand sleepless nights ago before a crack running the length of a laugh had widened, before the hand that clutched his had lost its grip, before the Unification and the lie that had changed his frown from a rut to a chasm that could not be crossed. That instrument lay as it should with its master. Hoar had sworn a wordless oath never to play again, but when he\rquote d seen it on the Trader\rquote s cart his resolve cracked like frostbitten iron. It had been madness, pure madness, to hand over a set of antlers, hardly worried at by mice, eight pelts, six rabbit, two ermine, and a whole buck skin he\rquote d tanned himself all for the little, cursed instrument.\par
Last season, the blacksmith had told him the metal was aging, had said the entire boot lock would have had to be replaced, but the price he had asked of Hoar, would only have asked of the old Azil, was too much to bear. He\rquote d thought, then, of trading the svelsa in. He always did, when times grew thin. Every stop the Trader made in town, he brought it down to trade for bags of grain and a sack full of onions, or a handful of nails and a window pane for his front door which faced east over the valley and framed the dawn\rquote s beauty. But each time, he returned home with the cursed thing, more often than not with a new string or a pinky vial of linseed oil or amber resin and placed it in the top drawer of his solitary cabinet. He wouldn\rquote t even look at the cabinet, not that he spent much time in his cabin during the summers and fall. But when the blanket of winter swept across the land, and he was buried in his cabin like a bear in her cave, he\rquote d take the svelsa out, reverently, and set fingers to strings. He\rquote d play the hundred songs his mother and father had taught him and the thousand his grandfather had. He\rquote d play them all, as he had for his wife and daughter, and those he\rquote d dreamed in waking. Then he\rquote d play them all again. Like the hare shedding her brown coat for white, his fingers shed their trappers trappings and dormant callouses rose from the soil of his flesh hard as flints. By solstice day, he\rquote d play for an audience of none for hours on end, lost in the melodies and memories he hated to his core. When spring came, he\rquote d put the svelsa away, and swear to uphold his oath. He\rquote d sell the evil thing, and be free. \par
What he would have given to have it with him now. Quickly, he dug around in his bags, two hung on the chest of the harness, two flaring to the sides to distribute the weight, for the bundle of twine.  By the end of the third excavation top to bottom he moved his search to the area he had fallen when the binding had broken as he glided down the rocky slopes. Nothing. Discordant notes of desperation were beginning to play within his heart. A minute ago he had been ready to sleep but now the thought of freezing frightened him. It was thirty hours back to Hrult, by ski, and more than twice that by foot without snowshoes. By the ache in his collar bone, there was a squall if not worse on its way and all the venison in the Golemel was useless if it and he were frozen. He quashed the beginning panic, changing tunes from Cannadray to Soldier Boy without thinking. He frowned then, anger replacing the melody. He studied the hole.\par
A minute later, he\rquote d made a windbreak of his body and was coaxing the lantern flame to life. The metal was still warm from its privileged position next to his body. He couldn\rquote t afford it to crack in the cold and leak oil or fat that cost him a third more than any other man or woman paid in the village. It had survived his tumble, slightly dented with the metal hook bent the wrong way. He\rquote d levered it until it broke, then stuck it like a spear in the snow within arm\rquote s reach. It had failed to fit the hole in the ski\rquote s binding, but just barely. He only needed a sliver more room. He put the flame to the iron of the hole, shielding the wood with the lantern\rquote s hood. He waited, the stab in his neck reminding him helpfully of its presence. When the metal was too hot to touch, he snatched up the icy rod and rammed it into hole, pinning the strap back in place He wiggled it forward until the temperatures equalized and it jammed. It wasn\rquote t pretty, but it would do the job. Like Hoar. A feeling of triumph in his heart, Hoar rose to his feet and took in his surroundings. \par
Slowly, like two tectonic plates colliding forcing up mountains across their expanse, his brow wrinkled. He sank back into his usual, choleric frown; his face barely remembered any other shape. There had been a flash of light up the ridgeline before everything went wrong. Through valleys of creased skin, hazel eyes appraised a snowdrift nearly thirty paces up the slope which had formed on the leeward side of the tree. Snow drifts didn\rquote t mound downwind of trees. Carefully, taking the time to do every strap properly and seat the weight about shoulder and hips, he donned his load but not before stringing his bow and checking that his quiver was easily reached. With a swish like velvet on velvet, he began to cut through the powder uphill. \par
When he saw the leg, brown and frosted with rime like white mold consuming a leaf skeleton he reached for an arrow and doubled over in pain. He\rquote d moved so rapidly when he realized what was under the snow, he had forgotten his battered arm. But the leg, and the body, he could see it now, did not react. \par
Hoar stopped, a ski length back string taunt but not yet drawn. Out from beneath a gorse thicket of eyebrows, icy eyes bored into the man shaped drift. Dark leggings, thin enough to see through failed to cover all the way down to the shoes which would have filled with snow, each step leeching another finger of heat. The calf that showed beneath the ragged, ripped pantleg was mottled brown and tinted blue. It was cracked and pierced by frosted hairs like reeds poking through the surface of black ice on the night of the first major freeze. Vaicour. Unprepared for the Golemel peaks in summer, let alone on the eve of winter. Dead. \par
Hoar lowered the bow. He crossed the distance to the corpse and brushed snow off the man\rquote s head and shoulders. Blue lips ringed by black, cold eaten skin and bloodshot eyes looked back at him from a man\rquote s face, perhaps forty-five. His shirt, a linen white, yellow against the snow, was just as useless for warmth as the pants, but that didn\rquote t mean they were worthless. Hoar could get something for it when the Trader came that spring. There was no cord around his neck to mark him meaning he was human. If he stole from humans and was caught, he\rquote d pay the Azil price. If he were caught. Perhaps it would fetch a thumb of salt, or a new needle and skin of brandy. Hoar didn\rquote t hesitate. He\rquote d need to get it off the man, hunched up and stiff. Hoar paused in his efforts to clear away the snow. The torn cloth from the pants, filleted like a deer carcass and bound tightly to the back of his thigh, was crusted with something blacker than the man\rquote s skin. Apprehension building behind his permafrost frown, Hoar slipped a knife from his belt fluidly and slit the knot.\par
 He still had to pull the cloth away to see the long, deep cut that had been a battleground between fevered rot and icy cold until the wind\rquote s greedy sucking voice had won. The slash was straight, and thin. This was not the work of a beast; or at least no beast that walked on all fours. Hoar\rquote s frown deepened and he took a measured scan of the surrounding trees. \f1\par
\f0 Satisfied that no one lurked in the trees above him, Hoar was still deeply unsettled. Something was wrong, beyond the wounds inflicted by humans. There was something missing from the body. He bent down again, and brushed more vigorously at the body dislodging small avalanches of snow. If his wife had been there, she would have paled at the idea of robbing the dead. Vaicour sentiment. He hauled at the body, bigger than him, but it didn\rquote t budge. It might be frozen to the ground, glued in place by the dead man\rquote s frozen urine, perhaps. He stepped around, brushing yet more snow off the man who was curled, huddling in the hollow behind the tree. There was something big, which the man was curled around. Hoar bent down to investigate then froze. \par
A blade hovered around his navel, poised to disembowel him. It wasn't a blade for chopping vegetables, skinning rabbits or whittling scrimshaws. It was short, triangular, built for piecing ring mail. Like the slow eddys in deep waters where no sun shown and blind fish hibernated, Hoar\rquote s eyes drifted up from the blade. \par
A woman whose fingers were swollen tight with frostbite around the hilt was staring up at him from the cold embrace of her human coffin. She was soldered to the ground, sunk two inches into frozen mud. In another decade or two, her face might be as cragged and lined as Hoar\rquote s, what remained of it. Even before winter\rquote s teeth had begun to gnaw and nibble, someone had burned nearly a third of her face, brown turning to flaky black. Something of that fire still burned within the pits of her eyes, staring at Hoar with a hunger he did not know. Her hand, too cold to shake, pricked through the fur and cloth and found his stomach. Hoar did not look down, though he felt blood steaming in the icebox air. It trickled down, painting her dirk crimson and mixing with the blood her cracked skin still managed to ooze. She would lose half the fingers on the hand, if she were lucky. If she was unlucky, she\rquote d make a good start at field dressing him before he could reach his flensing knife. They fixed gazes, neither backing down, neither speaking for half the time it takes for a footprint to be swallowed up by the driving snow. Then, lips cracking, she broke the silence.\par
\ldblquote Ludranon vol sa Sorena, vanethe. Atras sekalla vish.\rdblquote  \i Bastards. Killers. I\rquote ll butcher you and eat Sorena too. \f1\par
\i0\f0 The words came out like chunks of ice falling from the eaves, each block carefully broken off by numb fists more hammer than hand and striking the ground with shattering force. Hoar didn\rquote t reply. He knew only a handful of words in Vaicour, though his wife had tried to teach him. For all her efforts, he understood only one of her words, vol. It meant to eat. He stood, uncomprehending, hunched over like a mother snow bear over a kill and felt his heat drain through the prick in his skin. Perhaps he would die here, as a blanket for a woman soon to follow and a sheath for her blade on the eve of winter. What a stupid way to die. Hoar began to shiver, though a moment ago he hadn\rquote t realized he was this cold. His mind buzzed, searching for an escape route. There had to be a way out, something he could say or do if only he could concentrate. The drip of his blood against snowpack made a steady rhythm that he latched onto. Music had always focused him and he began to hum a tune in time. The first song to come to him was the cradle song he\rquote d sung his baby daughter to sleep with, something he hadn\rquote t sung in over twenty years. Frozen bewilderment at the song glimmered up, through the depths of numbness in the woman\rquote s face. The wetted dirk quivered and Hoar\rquote s heart quickened. Then, the mangled hand and triangle of steel fell away. A decision had been made. \par
\ldblquote Ule rakratha,\rdblquote  \i What are you? \i0 she murmured, and relinquished Hoar his life and hers. She let go, sinking into the deep snow, mind and body. The light within her eyes dimmed, but she did not close them. Hoar looked at the dead boy with a frown as deep as the sifting snow, then at the dying woman in summer clothes. The weight of the doe\rquote s carcass dug into his aching neck. Wolves would soon smell the bodies out, and the pack would feast. Nothing would be left, come the spring, save a few cracked bones scattered by the scavengers and dispersed further by the ice melt. It was thirty-one hours back to Hrullt, if the weather didn\rquote t worsen. There was little shelter for kilometers, and no hope that the woman would survive the trip back. He needed the doe, desperately, if he was going to make it through the winter. The choice was obvious. In the spine of the Golemell mountains, the wind and the wolves howled as one.\par
\pard\fi180\li90\cf0\f2\par
}
