{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f2\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\cf1\f0\fs20 Hoar placed one numb boot in front of the other. The cambered ski sank a handsbredth into powder. It might as well have been cloying, sucking mud for all the effort it took to remove. Hoar swung his other leg forward, so numb it hardly felt like it belonged to him and took one more step. And another, and another, cutting a shaky path around the perimeter of the black lake turned into a deceptive meadow of snow and brittle ice. Every kilometer, he would pause and pretend to resettle the straps holding the woman around his neck like a noose. In truth, he was checking to see if she were dead. But every time, her fliny eyes met his, defiantly awake and breathing. Hoar would frown, and take another bite of the frozen meat and carry on telling himself it would only take another kilometer before he could undo the straps and throw the body leaching his heat and strength to the wolves. But every kilometer covered, he'd look back and see her eyes, stubbornly alive. \par
Occasionally, the woman would murmur into his ear in the vexing language his wife had spoken so sweetly and memories like poisonous snakes would try to slither through the cracks of his mind. He ignored them both until the woman went silent, and let him walk in peace again. It wasn't until the final piece of salted venison that he realized she hand't drifted off to sleep at all. Not once in the twenty-seven-hour march, over nearly two score kilometers of snowy mountain terrain did she close her eyes and rest. \i\f1 "Azil" \i0\f0  Hoar thought,  and glowered at the problems, past and future, that the woman posed. \par
She was as close to unconsciousness as Azil could be when he got the woman back to his cabin, wedged between two outcroppings of rock like a piece of gristle between grey molars. Inside, the howl of the wind was muted and its teeth had been pulled. His cabin was spacious, a lake of empty floor supporting a meager table, chair and cabinet. This was the home of a family long since dispersed but one relative has yet to realize it, like a concert hall built for hundreds playing lonely witness to a minstril with an audience of none.\par
 Hoar undid his harness, and half lowered, half dropped the Vaicour woman to the ground. The wolfskin slithered down, pooling around her like Kel's vestaments, a bubble of Hoar's warmth. It wansn't long before a fire was sputtering into life next to what seemed like half a grove of neatly stacked, neatly split firewood. He\rquote d gotten the axe head from Ulma, the goat woman in Hrult. It was as dull as millet gruel was tasteless but he\rquote d sharpened it on a whetstone and he\rquote d paid the goat woman back a week later in a cord of wood, the first of several promised. Hoar didn't like millet or gruel and he especially didn't like Ulma's gruels which were almost unbelievably flat. Still, he found himself looking for excuses to visit the widows warm hearth and eat a bowl of tasteless slop prepared by Ulma. Hoar wondered what the goat woman would think if she were watching. \par
\f2\tab\f0  Hoar approach the Azil, dragging her like a sack of rice to the edge of the fire. There were two sacks of rice in the corner, each 20 kg and costing five fox furs apiece. They looked fat now, but Hoar scowled at the thought of them. Maybe he would be lucky and the Azil would die by the fire. She didn't try to stop him when he knelt and pulled off her shoes but she wimpered. Hoar ignored her, intense eyes scrutinizing the sole of her foot from beneath furrowed brows. The foot was mottled with dead flesh, black against the relative lightness of her sole. Every toe was black. He pinched one, and she didn\rquote t cry out. Soon, they would poison her blood. Hoar\rquote s frown went as dark as Glassnine valley, rimmed and shielded on all sides from the sun. He knew what had to be done, knew what that he didn\rquote t have the skill, and the knowledge ached worse than the dull roar which had spread from his neck down his back and shot through his arms like a metastasis. They\rquote d thought the years would sooth the lie, like spring\rquote s verdant green overtaking shell shattered stone. Instead, the barbed words had cut anew, working their way deeper every time as unable to heal as earth poisoned with lead and nitramide.\par
\tab The Azil had been silent since entering what might have been called a home by an optomistic visitor, but when Hoar\rquote s rough hands began to undo the thick cloth band that held her pants she gave a delirious, cry. She tried to club him across the face with a claw of a hand. The blow was feeble, almost childlike, but Hoar knew little Vaicouric and it would have taken an ox hitched to his tongue to drag from him the repulsive language. He slapped her hand away, ignoring her cold addled protestations and stripped her naked as a babe. Out of her sodden clothes, his eyes raked her. Frostbite, burns and an unhealthy palor. Hoar frowned, and hoisted her in the cradle of his arms and carried her to the wolfskin rug by the fire. He began piling unsalabel furs on top of her. Wolf, deer, bear and even a patchwork quilt ten kilos heavier with the stink of wood smoke and wet fur. Her glassy eyes watched him stacking up more wood by the fire. It would last several hours, at least. When he was strapping the bone and sinew meshes to his boots once more she finally spoke\par
\ldblquote Vanahale, koldrin.\rdblquote  It came out a croak, and whether it was a prayer, a benediction or a curse, Hoar didn\rquote t look back. \par
\pard\fi180\li90\cf0\f1\par
}
