{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\cf1\f0\fs20 Thirteen hours into the twenty-seven-hour journey the scattering of fat flakes drifting through the trees picked up. Squinting against the grey sky, Hoar tried to gauge if this was a passing squall or the overture to a blizzard. Sightless, arboreal sentinels looked down on him, mute and ancient. He scowled back at them, uncomfortably aware of the fatigue settling deeper and deeper into his aged bones for every passing hour. He couldn\rquote t afford to slow down. Resettling the load on his back he pushed off, gliding onward with the faintest crunch of ice crystals. Over the next hour, the snowfall intensified. \par
\tab If it was just a flurry, he could ride it out. Keep making for Hrult and he\rquote d be there in half a day. But if it were a blizzard, he\rquote d be caught out in the open. Not for the first time, Hoar wished for a compass, a skipping stone sized disk worth four kegs of sweet, pure Hrult gold a fortune he would never see in his lifetime. Without one, there was no guarantee he\rquote d make it safety even if he abandoned his burden. Get turned around in a white out and he might as well make it quick and slit his own throat. Unbidden, a memory of a voice, bubbling and spitting blood rose from the black canyon he\rquote d buried it in.\par
\tab Hoar hummed the opening lines of _______. Drown the memory. Force its heads under the water and hold it there no matter how it writhed and tried to shriek. Something shifted on his back and Hoar\rquote s concentration wavered. The memories slipped from his grasp, twisted and struck. And Hoar remembered. There was another option: a cache of food, firewood and blankets just three hours cross country up the mountain. The food had surely fouled decades ago, but the blankets and firewood were at the back of a cleft in the rock. He hadn\rquote t been on that route in nearly forty years, but he could still find it. \par
\tab\ldblquote What do you think,\rdblquote  he said to the woman bound to his back in place of the deer, sapping his warmth and strength. \par
\tab\ldblquote Thehan Ro?\rdblquote  \i Where are we? \i0 she murmured. Still awake with enough strength to speak. A good sign. But could she hold onto life without rest? Hoar frowned deeply, weighing the options as the meters slipped by beneath his ski.\par
\tab\ldblquote Just hold on for three hours,\rdblquote  Hoar said.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Thehan?\rdblquote  \i Where? \i0 she repeated, weaker this time.\par
\tab It took Hoar three and a half hours. The flurry had worsened and by the time he spied the little fissure in the rockface, his beard and eyebrows had accumulated so much snow someone might have mistaken him for a snowman. Icicles of snot and sweat had frozen to his nose, forcing the salt out like a protective jacket. He skied the last twenty meters to the cave face. Silently, efficiently, numbly, he slid into the dark. \par
Immediately, the sucking cold of the wind abated and warmth began to spread through his limbs. Without waiting for his eyes to adjust, he slid his passenger to the ground, depositing her in a shallow drift of snow that had blown past the occlusion of rock. Hoar straightened with in one, glorious stretching motion almost feeling his spine elongate. Cramped muscles sang with relief feeling the accumulation of aches crack like a thin skin of ice. His sweat drenched clothes peeled back from allowing air to percolate. He nearly welcomed this draft of cool air that accompanied the motion. But he could not give in to the exhaustion completely. He bent to undo his ski then frowned. The makeshift repair was stuck firmly in place as if welded by cold. He debated trying to work it out but decided better of it. It would be an awkward rest stop without removing his skis, but not as awkward as breaking the boot for good and ending up stranded on the mountainside. It wasn\rquote t like any human would be coming to rescue him. Through the slits of his iyegaatek, he reexamined his charge, focusing on the burns across her face. Humans wouldn\rquote t be searching for him, but that didn\rquote t mean there weren\rquote t humans on the mountain searching. \par
After Hoar had returned from the cavemouth, confident that the narrow tracks he\rquote d left behind would be obliterated by the snowfall, he found the woman was shivering. Hoar hesitated, then then stripped off his wolf cloak, rolling her up in it like baby in swaddling clothes. He\rquote d explore the recess of the cave for the old blanket momentarily, but he couldn\rquote t leave her lying on a snow pile to freeze. But as he bent down her mangled lips worked. \ldblquote Kusin. Thehon vol?\rdblquote  \i Hungry. Something to eat?\par
\i0\ldblquote Vol?\rdblquote  Hoar said back, frowning. \par
\ldblquote Vol,\rdblquote  the woman echoed. Hoar drew out a few mouthful strips of smoked venison poking one into her mouth and biting down on his own. It was hard as granite and just as old. As he worried his own piece, he saw her feeble chewing stop and the meat slipped out to the floor. He prodded the food back into her mouth only to watch it fall to the ground seconds later. Hoar frowned, thinking.\par
At first, she hadn\rquote t understood, swollen remnants of lips protesting as much as she could but he forced her mouth open anyway and put cracked whiskery lips over hers. Then she realized, and accepted the food. He made sure she swallowed, frowning fiercely all the while. In a grotesquery of mother bird and chick, Hoar chewed the dried meat her. She stared back, too tired or uncaring to muster a glare or a thank you or even fear. When she\rquote d had enough, she nodded, like a branch springing back after dislodging its crown of snow, just a flake too heavy, and Hoar straightened from his awkward, ski bound seat. \par
Working on his own piece of teak like venison, he stumped deeper into the cave, lifting his skis like a show horse so as not to scratch the surface. It was noisy, but that didn\rquote t\rquote  matter here. There had been a rock shelf at the back of the cave, perhaps fifteen meters in, where they\rquote d cached the food and blankets. The blankets might have rotted away, but that wasn\rquote t a death sentence here. The air was warmer than he\rquote d hoped, and even without the embrace of his blighted cloak the chill was evaporating from his bones. Even his nose was thawing. Hoar breathed in and smelled it a hot, primal, animal fug. And that wasn\rquote t a pile of old blankets at the back of the cave. With a snuffling, rumble, the mass of thick, brown fur shifted in its hibernation. They were in a cave with a grizzly. \par
When Hoar started breathing again, he didn\rquote t rush. It was early in the season, and this hibernation was barely a nap compared to the deep sleep of winter. It wouldn\rquote t take much to wake it. Hoar grimaced at the ski clattering cacophony or his entrance and tried to make up for it now. Like a glacier, he began to move backwards, painfully aware of each scrape his skis made when replaced against the stone floor. The bear moved again, uncurling one passive paw. His fingers itched to draw his bow but it was with the rest of his gear by the entrance. Even if he did have it, the bear was large, huge stores of fat to get it through the winter while he only had a handful of smoked jerky and a second mouth to feed. Only an exceptionally lucky shot would do anything more than enrage the bear, and then it would still have enough time to rend him limb from limb before succumbing. Hoar took another tentative step backwards and then another. The bear didn\rquote t move still seemingly locked in slumber. \par
With a quiet, rapid efficiency Hoar began to reload his harness. Every clink of glass or gentle thud of metal hurt like physical wounds, but at least the adrenaline had burned the tiredness away. He\rquote d loaded everything but his bow and cloak when his attention turned to the human. He had to put hoist her dead weight into the harness first, then the cloak over that before he could strap his bow in place. But when he rolled her out of the cloak, she squeaked in protest. \ldblquote Hush,\rdblquote  he whispered swinging her around. Again, she squeaked and this time he slapped her. There was no thought behind it. It was just the natural reaction to quiet a crying child. But instead of shutting her mouth, the woman let out a shriek and echoed through the cave. Hoar\rquote s calloused hand clamped down over her mouth, furiously silencing her but it was too late. He heard the rumbling ursine roar from the back of the cave. He scooped her up in his arms, still tangled in the cloak and realized his bow was a meter out of reach. He hesitated a bare second, but the choice was made for him by the mass of fur and teeth loping from the deepest part of the rock cleft. Hoar shoved off backwards out of the cave, leaving his only weapon behind. \par
The bear didn\rquote t follow them into the blowing snow and Hoar stopped a hundred meters downhill, dropping the bundled woman in the snow. Wrinkled face contorting with rage he opened his mouth to scream at the stupid girl then stopped. Her eyes were glistened with tears, and she\rquote d curled into a ball, expecting the blow. Only then did he realize his fist was raised. He lowered it, and picked her up. She settled onto his back, wrapping her arms around him as he threw the wolf cloak over both of them. \par
\pard\fi180\li90\ldblquote It wasn\rquote t your fault.\rdblquote  He whispered, looking back at the cave and the mountain path he\rquote d only ever taken once. \ldblquote It wasn\rquote t your fault.\rdblquote  He squinted up at the sky. The snow was still coming as fiercely as ever and there was only one path to follow. He set his skis downhill towards Hrult, away from the cave and the path and what lay at the top. The woman\rquote s weighed against him, heavier than a deer carcass and far less useful. She would only get heavier as the nights dragged on, like a cairn of stones being built stone by stone overhead until he could no longer move. \cf0\f1\par
}
