{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\cf1\f0\fs20 The recruiter, a tall Vaicour sergeant with broad shoulders and a noble face, had arched a single, elegant, Vaicour eyebrow at Crater\rquote s heartfelt oath of loyalty made in Vaicouric. He\rquote d been impressed, Crater had hoped he would be. He\rquote d practiced the oath every night for two weeks, Hoar frowning each time he caught him at it. The recruiter nodded to the rifle, a Cabratta only three years old, on Crater\rquote s back and asked in Vaicouric, \ldblquote You can shoot?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes!\rdblquote  Crater barked. He would have liked to say more, added a bit of flair, but he didn\rquote t trust his Vaicouric enough to risk it. He\rquote d impressed the man, and there was no point in ruining his good impressing by shooting his mouth off. Unslinging the rifle and nesting the stock against his shoulder he sighted down the irons at a tree trunk, thirty meters downwind of them. He breathed, and fired. There was a sharp crack, a blissful, acrid tang of gunpower and bark flew. Crater smiled. The man who had been his hunting partner wouldn\rquote t have. Hoar had always pointedly ignored his rifle. Perhaps it was jealously, or perhaps he preferred his bow lacquered in bear grease.\par
The recruiter had made Crater a corporal then and there, as much for his ability with the rifle as his fluency in Vaicouric. There were enough Golemel recruits to make up two squads, and Crater had one, Parseek the other. He\rquote d seen the gleam in Crater\rquote s eye when little Irina had arrived under the elder tree where the recruiters were collecting every brave man and woman Hrullt could spare and many they couldn\rquote t. Before the man could intervene, Crater had taken the mayor\rquote s son by the arm and led him far from the tree planted by his ancestor. He made the first of that night\rquote s promises then, \ldblquote You do not interfere with Irina. Do you hear me? If you so much whisper to the sergeants, I\rquote ll make you regret it the rest of your life.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote d never dream of getting between you and your little vendigores. Cross my heart.\rdblquote\par
Not knowing what else to do, Crater had stomped off. By all account, he\rquote d won that encounter, but throughout, Parseek\rquote s infuriating smirk never flickered. But he\rquote d gotten what he wanted, what was best for everyone, hadn\rquote t he? Irina had a chance, in the royal army, away from the taint of Azil and where every Golemel knew her name. Once the insurrection was quelled, she could remain down on the delta where she could make a better future for herself, away from those who knew what she came from, and away from her father. The first promise had been easy to make, and easier to keep. The second- but Crater navigated that memory hole like a Vaicour river captain passing within arm\rquote s reach of snags but never quite touching them on his way downriver to fair weather, fair profits and a far-off training camp.\par
\pard\fi180\li90\cf0\f1\par
}
