{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\cf1\f0\fs20\ldblquote When are mother and father coming back?\rdblquote  \par
Immediately, Hoar knew he\rquote d said the wrong thing. Val hadn\rquote t stop sanding, but the motions which had before been careful stokes taking bare microns off the raw window sash became mechanical. If he wasn\rquote t careful, he\rquote d end up taking an unnecessary stroke. Hoar pointedly avoided looking at the woodshed, rather ducked his head back to the washboard, redoubling his efforts. \par
\ldblquote Autumn, obviously,\rdblquote  Gili said with distaste, short of breath from stirring the mass of sodden clothes in the tin washbasin that doubled as a bath. Her nose was wrinkled from the smell of the pot ash. They were in the clearing behind the cabin, taking advantage of the last few warm days before the flood of red and yellows touched the maples in the valley and the nights began to dream of rime. \ldblquote More heat, Crater. Do I have to do everything around here?\rdblquote  Gili ordered.\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m doing it,\rdblquote  he said, hastily poking another branch into the flames beneath the basin.\par
\ldblquote Anyway, my father said he\rquote d be back before the first snowfall,\rdblquote  Gili continued. \par
Hoar\rquote s head came up hopefully. \ldblquote Are you sure?\rdblquote\par
Gili stopped stirring. \ldblquote Of course. It\rquote s just a boarder skirmish.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The Mograthi are going to be crushed!\rdblquote  chimed in Crater, excitedly. \ldblquote Mother was telling me,\rdblquote  he said, brow furrowing in recitation, \ldblquote They don\rquote t have the supply lines for a long camp.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Campaign.\rdblquote  Gili corrected. \ldblquote And what\rquote s really important is the Vaicour Cuirassiers. We have the best cavalry in the whole world,\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Keep stirring,\rdblquote  Val said, still apparently focused on his carpentry.\par
\ldblquote You\rquote re turn,\rdblquote  Gili said, handing the paddle off to Crater who took it grudgingly. Gili sat down by the stack of wood her face a picture of suffering. \ldblquote And do a full turn this time.\rdblquote  Gili, a pudgy girl of nine, had arms twice the girth of Crater\rquote s twig like limbs and could carry a calf by herself. Hoar scrubbed fretfully, ignoring the dull sting in fingers turned pink and wrinkled from the caustic water. \par
\ldblquote Nothing can beat the Vaicour Cuirassiers,\rdblquote  Crater said confidently, clutching the paddle before him like it was a rifle and he were a soldier on parade. Hoar\rquote s dirty reflection frowned up at him, unconvinced.\par
\ldblquote What if Mograthi use Vendigores.\rdblquote  The words slipped out before he realized what he\rquote d said. The sanding block\rquote s rasp stopped and Hoar clamped his mouth shut. Vendigore soldiers weren\rquote t to be talked about. \par
\ldblquote You have another load after this. Keep scrubbing,\rdblquote  Val said in a flat voice that Hoar knew meant he\rquote d pay the Azil price for the slip up later. \par
\ldblquote The Mograthi can\rquote t use Vendigores. Orturiel wouldn\rquote t let them,\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s why we\rquote re fighting them, silly boy. And they\rquote re called Ursar in Mograth.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If you have so much free time to talk, I\rquote m sure I can find you more work.\rdblquote  Val said, this time allowing a note of displeasure to darken his voice. That shut the humans up. \par
After a minute, Crater said, \ldblquote More wood,\rdblquote  pausing to wipe the perspiration from his forehead with trembling arms. This was made pointless by the personal cloud of steam enveloping his head and shoulders. \par
 \ldblquote I don\rquote t understand why you can\rquote t just do this while we\rquote re sleeping,\rdblquote  Gili said, poking listlessly at the fire. \par
\ldblquote You need to learn the value of hard work,\rdblquote  Val said, testing the fit of the sash.  \par
\ldblquote I know the value of hard work. But you Azil don\rquote t have to sleep so why should I spend my time when you could do it so easily. I need all the time to study I can get.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Keep stirring,\rdblquote  was Val\rquote s only reply. \par
\ldblquote The fire\rquote s too hot,\rdblquote  Gili said sulkily, taking the paddle from Crater.  \par
\ldblquote You\rquote ll wish you had a fire that hot one day, up on the mountain, when winter bares her teeth and the wind freezes anything not covered.\rdblquote  Val said unsympathetically. Hoar\rquote s attention began to wander. \par
\ldblquote Only a fool would go up the mountain when it\rquote s still snowy.\rdblquote\par
Perhaps even now his mother and father were facing a vendigore in the pass, backed against cliffs with nowhere to run. His hands slipped and he felt a caustic burn as a rough tooth of metal tore a jagged cut along the pad of his index finger allowing the scummy water to flow in. \par
\ldblquote We can\rquote t all own a hundred goats\rdblquote  Crater said, throwing a handful of sticks into the fire. Hoar heard Val\rquote s suppressed snort. Maybe Gili did too. \par
\ldblquote It\rquote s almost two hundred.\rdblquote  Gili said, primly. \ldblquote And your mother owns the store, if I remember correctly?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote So?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote So you can stay inside you\rquote re nice warm house while I have to go outside in the snow and cold and take care of the animals, obviously.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote My father\rquote s taking me hunting next Spring! It\rquote ll be plenty icy and muddy!\rdblquote  Crater \par
 Guiltily, Hoar remembered it wasn\rquote t just his parents that were off in the war. \ldblquote If they\rquote re back safe by then,\rdblquote  Hoar whispered, but so softly that neither of his bickering friends could hear him. \par
\ldblquote That\rquote s stupid.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Is not.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Is too. Only a fool would go up the mountain when it\rquote s still snowing.\rdblquote\par
\pard\fi180\li90\cf0\f1\par
}
