{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf1\f0\fs20 Hoar glowered at the richly adorned facade as if the machine behind his eyes could bubble the paint, scorch the wood and melt the brass lettering above the door to blazing rain. He\rquote d been standing there full four minutes, muscles stubbornly refusing to reach out and knock. It was a forty minute hike back to where the frostbitten Azil might already be dead; would be dead if he wasted another second. He just had to reach out.\par
Hoar remained frozen. He may have stood there immutable as a statue but a trill of laughter shattered the stigian silence. A pair of young girls strolled around the. The giggling choked off when they saw him, expressiones of mirth replaced by repulsion, as though a white haired wolf spider had crept up on them unannounced. They were too young. Old enough to remember a time when a missing limb had been rare but too young to be properly afraid. They wavered, rocking on their heels until Hoar turned his glare on them. The girls fled back the way they\rquote d come, back along the lane that led to, among other things, the Mayor\rquote s home. He didn\rquote t have time to waste. Hoar reached out and took the knocker as though it was a baby viper. It was an ornate thing, wrought in the shape of a fox head from brass, just like the lettering above it which spelled \ldblquote Ms. Lina Ague, Linctus, Apothecist, Veever.\rdblquote  Hoar gave a solid, wood denting knock. \par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ve been up since dawn slaving away so unless this is an emergency, come back tomorrow,\rdblquote  came a woman\rquote s annoyed voice from somewhere deep within the house. It was a voice that Hoar knew well, and it still rang with the same commanding tone that tried to drag an apology from his lips becuase it was always right and he was always wrong. Hoar grimaced, as though taking a shot of poison. Wondering if he would spit venom if he spoke, he knocked again, louder this time and more insistently. There was splashing, a few bumps and bangs that sounded as though a kettle had been dropped and then the door was flung open. Gili stood there, ample bosom supporting the whitest, fluffiest towel Hoar had ever seen. She did not look her age, and hadn\rquote t for twenty years if the tidbits Ulma fed him were to be believed. Smooth skin, full lips and breasts, a face free from the ravages of time; the perks of being a Veever. \ldblquote Oh,\rdblquote  she said, surprise, anger, embarrassment and something else warring for control of her face. Anger won. It usually did. \ldblquote Come to apologize, have you?\rdblquote  \par
It was like lightning seared across his soul; every muscle in his body, already tensed from exaustion and the ever bubbling rage, wound up. His hands convulsed as though they were gripping the woman by her fat neck, lifting her off the ground and throttling her there in plain view of the lane. Would arrive in time to see, he wondered. Would anyone stop his execution? And then, like lightning, the moment had passed. \par
Hoar blinked down his crooked nose at her, forcibly uncurling his hands from the throatless strangle hold to a major chord, the opening to Ritatin-tin. \par
\tab\ldblquote No," was all he trusted himself to say, the flash boil of fury still cooling. \par
\tab\ldblquote Well then? Are you just going to stand there and stare? Say what you want,\rdblquote  she said petulantly. For her, it was almost a regular speaking voice. \par
\tab\ldblquote Your gear, medicine,\rdblquote  Hoar said, remembering why he had come. The look of resentment was replaced by what Hoar might have thought was concern for him, if he didn\rquote t know better. She looked him up and down, noting the blood stain where the woman\rquote s dagger had pricked his belly. She reached out to touch him, the expanse of thick white towel slipping from where she\rquote d held it revealing another finger\rquote s breadth of skin. \par
He drew away from her touch, pulling his wolf\rquote s skin and frown tighter around him like armor. \ldblquote It\rquote s not for me.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote Who then,\rdblquote  she said, that odd look which had been there before returning and winking out just as quickly.\par
\ldblquote I don\rquote t know.\rdblquote\par
\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\sl252\slmult1\qc ***\par
\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\sl252\slmult1\tab Even through the fevered delerium that wracked the Azil girl's body, Hoar could see the pleading, childlike fear in her eyes. He looked away, sicked\par
\ldblquote Idiot." Gili snapped at Hoar, pulling the syringe from the wimpering girl's arm. "If you can\rquote t hold it in, go and find me someone who can.\rdblquote  Gili weilded words like they were scalples, expertly slicing past muscle and callouses that might have offered resistance to score the soft underbelly. Hoar choked back his bile and in the privacy of his own head hummed Violet Tears, weaving a world away from the insignificant cabin in the unforgiving Golemel on the wavering cusp of the Vaicour empire. Gili couldn't hear. Hoar didn't sing for her anylonger. \par
Gili waited a verse and a half for the sedative to take hold before moving in, instrument in hand. The knife didn\rquote t make much sound as it slid through the swollen black skin, but the woman did. Half lidded eyes shot open and she howled. It was a visceral, inhuman howl and Hoar\rquote s Violet Tears broke. \par
\tab\ldblquote God dammit." Gili swore, loudly so as to be heard over the wail, "Ketamine. Now.\rdblquote  Hoar looked at her outstretched hand blankly. \ldblquote The tinted bottle that says Ketamine on it. Hurry.\rdblquote  He found it swiftly and passed it to her. "Why is she still conscious?" Gili muttered, drawing another cc with the trained efficiency of a woman who cut her teeth in the screams and sucking mud of the Mograthi plains. She tested from her syringe and readied the needle. The thick bore pressed against the skin of the prone woman\rquote s for an instant and then slid in. The woman wimpered again, staring up at Hoar as though she didn't understand why he was doing this to her. Hoar felt his stomach churn. \ldblquote I said if you can\rquote t hold it in,\rdblquote  Gili began but Hoar cut her off.\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m fine,\rdblquote\par
\tab Gili rolled her eyes, \ldblquote If you say so.\rdblquote  She pulled the needle free and pressed a boiled rag down so the blood could clot. Then she turned on Hoar. \ldblquote So, Mr. avoid-me-for-sixteen-years, who is she and why am I cutting off what\rquote s left of her fingers on your God damn living room table?\rdblquote  Hoar frowned, organizing his thoughts one by one, like a man with an axe lopping off the branches to a fallen tree. The important thing, when alone in the woods and wielding a wedge of sharpened steel was not to let something slip.\par
\tab\ldblquote I found her on the mountain," he said and then paused, wondering if he should say anything about the dead man with her. Playing for time,he continued, "she was dressed for delta summer and half froze."\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, is that it? You found her? You just found her, did you?" Gili said picking up instantly on the hesitation in Hoar's voice. Hoar gritted his teeth. It would have been better to have kept his mouth shut. "And I suppose she just tripped and fell into the fire," Gili said, sarcasm vying with accusation as she nodded to the burn that lanced across the woman\rquote s face. Hoar didn\rquote t answer. \ldblquote God dammit Hoar what did you do this time?\rdblquote  Of course they'd think he did it. Even now though, he hadn't expected her to think so poorly of him. \par
\ldblquote I didn't do anything."\par
"You're sure you didn't lose your temper?" Gili said, scalple in hand. Hoar's face darkened.\par
"I didn't do anything!" he repeated louder but this only seemed to prove Gili's point. "I found her like this," he said, trying to regain his composure. Abruptly, Gili switched tact. \par
"Was it bandits?"\par
"No. Maybe. I don't know,"\par
"Are you sure?"\par
"I don't know!"\par
"You're splattered with blood, missing every arrow and your bow I might add, oh, and you brought in a woman scorched skinless and you say you weren't attacked?" Gili repeated raising her voice. "So what happened, if it was just you and her?"\par
"I don't know," Hoar said for a third time, almost shouting. He wasn't saying the right things. This wasn't how he'd wanted things to go. Not that he'd wanted to see her only. Hoar tried to untangle the mess of thoughts but Gili rolled right over him. \par
\ldblquote Interrupt my bath after a long, long day, mind you - did you know I was treating some of your people today? Spending hours and hours with vomiting children is not my idea of fun- then you turn up! Sixteen years and now here you are, bloody as a gutted pig, dragging me out in the middle of the night to some naked, half dead girl and then don\rquote t tell me anything but expect me to save her!" Gili was practically shouting now her voice having taken on the incessant whine of a bandsaw. Hoar had frozen, still as an ice damn and just as cold. "Who the hell is she? Some new Vaicour lover? Even underneath that burn she got by \i\f1 accident\i0  she can't be more half your age. Then, y\f0 ou always did like them black.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Leave the dead in peace." Hoar hadn't moved, had barely raised his voice but there was something of the groan and creak of an ice damn that makes the flightless creatures below take pause. "If you can't do what needs doing, leave. I'll find someone who can." Hoar Hazel eyes met Gili's and she instinctively found the hollow eye sockets of his cloak. She swallowed her retort. \par
"Like who," she muttered, "We're wasting time."\par
Looking down at her patient, Gili pinched the meat of her arm and twisted savagely. The woman gave a weak cry. \ldblquote God dammit!\rdblquote  Gili shouted to nothing and no one, \ldblquote She should be out cold for a week,\rdblquote  Gili turned on Hoar, reading his frown like Grimor\rquote s Introduction to the Vivisectionist\rquote s Art. \ldblquote If you want your ward or whatever she is to survive her choice of attire, you'd better start talking. Is she on anything? Stimulants? Amphetamines?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote d never let someone go up the mountain dressed like that,\rdblquote  Hoar said, offended and entirely avoiding the question.\par
\ldblquote Fine. Some total stranger stripped naked all alone with you up on the mountain and fell in the fire. That's lovely but is she on anything?\rdblquote  Gili repeated, pounding the last words like a hammer, driving the cruel insinuations deep. \par
\ldblquote She's Azil,\rdblquote  Hoar said through clenched teeth, as though every word were being dragged from by a train of draft horses. Gili\rquote s eyes went wide as saucers, and Hoar thought he saw a flash of fear within them before it dissappeared beneath a grimace and hissed,\par
\ldblquote Idiot. Idiot. Idiot, idiot idiot!\rdblquote  Her voice rose with each, punctuated syllable until Hoar thought the villagers three kilometers down the mountain might hear her and she hurled the rag at him. The bloody cloth hit him in the chest. \ldblquote Ketamine doesn\rquote t work on your kind.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why?\rdblquote  Hoar said, his forehead wrinkling. \par
\ldblquote I don\rquote t know, do I look like an Angel to you? You're the one it doesn\rquote t work on.\rdblquote  Gili lifted her scrubbed clean hand to run it through her hair then caught herself. \ldblquote I might have something. Check my bag for a vial labeled Veercyclidine. Hoar obeyed, rummaging through the neatly arranged bottles, tins and wickedly sharp tools of a Veever\rquote s craft. His hands were passing over a bone saw when Gili interrupted, \ldblquote Never mind. I\rquote ve got it.\rdblquote  He turned to see her drawing a scruple of clear liquid from another vial. It disappeared into one of the many pockets sewn into her coat in a flash and then she was drugging the woman once more. This time, Hoar didn\rquote t wretch, though he still grimaced as the needle plunged.\par
\ldblquote VCD has some side effects,\rdblquote  she said to Hoar, waiting for the analgesic to take effect.\par
\ldblquote Like what?\rdblquote  said Hoar. He didn\rquote t like what he\rquote d heard in Gili\rquote s voice. \par
\ldblquote Mania. Excited delirium. Phyrexia,\rdblquote  recognizing Hoar\rquote s confused frown, she rolled her eyes. \ldblquote She\rquote s going to get feverish and think she\rquote s very strong. She might turn violent.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why,\rdblquote  Hoar said, appalled.\par
\ldblquote Because,\rdblquote  Gili said with a knowing grin. \ldblquote It has its uses. It can make a human go for twenty four hours without sleep. It keeps you fresh and feeling no pain. And funnily enough, it\rquote s the only drug I know that numbs Azil too.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It won\rquote t knock her out?\rdblquote\par
Gili laughed. \ldblquote With that much VCD in her system? It\rquote s likely to make her more lively. Twice that and she\rquote ll perform the surgery herself. Five times that and she\rquote ll dance the harvest jig all the way down the mountain on bleeding feet. At least, until her heart bursts.\rdblquote  when Gili saw the confused frown on Hoar's face, she added, "they first formulated it twenty years ago. The stuff I have is gentler. Or at least less brutal." Hoar blinked, then nodded. Those had been different times, a world and a war away. \ldblquote I\rquote ll need your help holding her down while I fix her up. Think you can do that without being sick?\rdblquote  Hoar nodded again, remembering the fox. \par
\pard\fi180\li90\f1 _________________\par
\par
\par
\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\sl252\slmult1\f0 A ruddy glow crept beneath the woman\rquote s skin, as though her face was the door to a freshly stoked furnace coming to life. The tatter of lips that were left peeled back, revealing white teeth, white as the snow she\rquote d been plucked from and Gili realized she was smiling. A gurgle of sound clawed its way out of her throat, but once the dam had burst a clear flow of laughter sprung forth.\par
\ldblquote That would be the delirium,\rdblquote  she said to Hoar who was wearing his frightened frown. There was a slight widening of the eyes forcing through the oppression of his brows. His hair had gone almost pure silver, since she\rquote d last seen him. It suited him. There were some men in the village with hardly a hair left on their heads and more fingers than teeth but not him. He\rquote d aged well, like fine wine, like her. \par
\tab Gili casually pricked her patient\rquote s palm. There wasn\rquote t even a flinch. \ldblquote We could butcher her and she wouldn\rquote t feel a thing,\rdblquote  Gili declared. Hoar put on his disapproving frown, a pursing lips and a straightening of his shoulders, as if he was looking down on her. Contrary to the purely physical difference in size, she\rquote d never felt looked down on by him. With the smoothness of a natural born con artist, her memory passed over the one exception to this without a rollick in the waves. \ldblquote Spike me. Just relax, I\rquote m a Veever. Now hold her down so she doesn\rquote t kill herself while I save her life.\rdblquote\par
\tab Frostbite wasn\rquote t rare in the Golemel. Mostly the villagers learned the signs, but how many fingers and toes it took for them to learn was another question. Sometimes, if a group were caught away from their snug homes in an early snow or some damn fool thought he could navigate the twenty steps from his front door to the woodpile in a blizzard things got bad. They didn\rquote t half realize what was happening until the feeling had been gone. If they were lucky, a friend would come dig them out and Gili was called to do what she could. If they were very lucky, she could save the fingers, though some preferred the amputation. Nerve damage, like red hot needles being forced through pad, core and nail wasn\rquote t uncommon. This case, however, was one of the worst she\rquote d seen. Whoever this Vaicour voyeur was, she\rquote d be lucky if she could count to five and that was including her toes. With an almost depressing experience, she stripped back the swollen black flesh, Hoar nailing the arm to the table with his weight. Even still, the woman tried to twist that girlish, giggle erupting in disquieting outbursts. This shouldn't have been a problem. People didn't get livlier under anasthesia. Gili hated working on Azil. \par
\tab\ldblquote Bone Pliers,\rdblquote  she ordered. Hoar frowned confusedly at her and she rolled her eyes. \ldblquote Bone Pliers. There, right there. Look where I\rquote m pointing.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Why are they called that?\rdblquote  Hoar asked, as he handed the steel, snub nosed cutters to her. She rolled them in her grip, finding the right length for leverage. They didn\rquote t look particularly thick, but still. \ldblquote Look and see.\rdblquote  Hoar did for half a second, before turning his gaze fixedly skywards. Gili smirked, and squeezed. \par
One of the serious drawbacks of using VCP on patients, Gili mused, was that it tricked their heart into thinking it was outrunning a mountain bear. Not only did this tax the heart to the point of collapse, it sent her patient\rquote s blood pressure sky high. She'd injected a depresant, but had skimped the dosage a little. It was a fine line to ride between risking negative drug combinations and the threat of bursting the flaps of skin pulled tight over the stubs of bone and stitched down firmly. \par
\ldblquote Can you replace them?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Give her new fingers. New hands.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Of course I can. If I had an extra set lying about. So unless you\rquote re willing to donate your pretty svelsa hands I think I\rquote ll just try to stitch her up. Now stop asking stupid questions and hold her still. I know I make this look easy,\rdblquote  her last three words were grunts as she sheared off another millimeter chip of bone. She felt little right now, in the heat of the moment, but come morning her hands would be aching fiercely. And there were still all the toes. Another shock of metal shears shutting ran up her own finger bones and the woman giggled. \ldblquote That tickles.\rdblquote\par
Hoar looked up to Gili. He\rquote d been able to watch her repair of the last two fingers on this hand. She\rquote d left her a thumb and middle finger. They were the thickest digits, and least damaged, but she was an Azil if they\rquote d heal without burning nerves. \ldblquote What did she say?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Don\rquote t distract me," Gili snapped. The woman spoke in Vaicour, but not a delta dialect. Gili was still trying to place where she\rquote d heard that accent before when the woman spoke again. \ldblquote Is this a game? Are you giving me new hands, mother?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You could call it that,\rdblquote  Gili grunted. Her regular steel scalpel ringed the pinkey, slicing black and blue necrosis away like when Parseek had killed the sapling maples by cutting into the heartwood of the tree and severing the veins all the way around. \par
\tab\ldblquote What did she say?\rdblquote  Hoar asked again.\par
"I can't afford to keep a running commentary. This isn't as easy as I make it look." \par
The girl must have heard something in her voice becasue her next bizzarly accented outburst was more conciliatory." \par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ll be better this time. I promise. I promise, mother,\rdblquote\par
 \tab\ldblquote I am not your mother,\rdblquote  Gili said, tugging the flesh back. It resisted. She must not have cut all the way through.\par
\tab\ldblquote No,\rdblquote  the woman sounded confused, and hurt, like a child realizing she had been lied too. Gili glanced up to discover that she was the focus of an intense, penetrating gaze. The ruined face was, like the smoldering cloth of a tent just before the flames reached the powder kegs, but her eyes were crystal orbs of hatred piqued by VCD. \par
\tab Gili\rquote s knife edge intake of breath was all the warning the old woodsman got before her patient flipped from docile Azil to thrashing, screaming devil. There was a second of coiling muscle and then Hoar was crashing backwards and the mad woman was reaching for Gili. Through the Veever\rquote s art, Gili had kept her body curvaceous in the face of time\rquote s passage, but beneath the fat, powerful muscles that had carried her through the bracken and sucking mud of the Mograthi Campaigns. She caught the clawing hands and wrestled them onto the table, pinning them down with her weight where they couldn\rquote t do any more harm, to her or themselves. But the Azil curled like a viper, a wild kick aimed at her skull. She dodged, partially, and the bony shin struck the meat of her shoulder. Gili grunted in pain. \par
\tab Then, Hoar appeared like a revenant rising to seek vengeance. Great arms wrapped around her torso, wresting her from Gili's grasp and slamming the VCD crazed woman down onto the table, knocking the wind out of her. She gasped for air, but Hoar, frown gone, a snarl in its place, was up on the table, his knee pressing into her thin chest. She kicked at air, and Gili let go; Hoar had nailed her hands to the table with his own. Anger and pain twisted his face. He only looked up when she struck him across the cheek. \par
\tab\ldblquote I said ease up! You\rquote re choking her you fool!\rdblquote  Gili's hand smarted, it was like slapping a rock. But it had the desired effect. Hoar\rquote s face went from anger to horror in a second, his eyes wide and frown sickened not angry and he removed his knee from her diaphragm.  \ldblquote Stay there,\rdblquote  Gili cautioned. \ldblquote God dammit, I\rquote m used to working with an experienced crew.\rdblquote  She saw the look on his face and relented, \ldblquote No, that\rquote s not what I mean. You\rquote ve never done this before is all. She\rquote s flying high as heaven right now, no telling what might set her off. I just never expected her to have that much strength. I would have added safety restraints if you'd brought her to my place but I'll have to make do with what I have.\rdblquote\par
\tab This didn\rquote t seem to help. \ldblquote I shouldn\rquote t have- that wasn\rquote t- it wasn\rquote t something a human would have done.\rdblquote\par
\tab Gili felt like shouting. Instead, she rolled her eyes and said, \ldblquote hold her down. We can determine who\rquote s a monster after we save her life.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Surprisingly, none of the stitches she\rquote d put in had burst, but it was still almost dawn before they were done. It would have been sooner, but Gili had to keep feeding the fire which had died from neglect, she noticed, sometime before the Azil\rquote s explosive mania. As the fire wood dwindled, energy evaporated from Gili\rquote s bones, leaving her more drained than she had been in years.  It did not help that when the Azil wasn\rquote t crying, she was intermittently begging or cursing Hoar. Gili refused to translate, but from the set of his frown, she guessed he didn\rquote t need her to.\par
\tab\ldblquote Please, you\rquote re an Azil too. Don\rquote t you understand? Why can\rquote t you understand?\par
\tab\ldblquote There\rquote s a special place in hell for traitors and cowards monster!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Please. Please! You can stop this. We can find mother, she\rquote ll save us both.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote ll take you apart next. Pick you apart, piece by piece and you\rquote ll deserve it.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Please. Please?\rdblquote\par
Just as she was finishing packing the last bandage on the woman\rquote s melted face with enough antibiotics to kill a sheep, she spoke. \ldblquote Vaicour flesh witch.\rdblquote  Her tone was neither pleading, or furious. It was plain, flat, as if she were commenting upon the weather. \ldblquote I\rquote m going to eat you.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What did she say?\rdblquote  Hoar asked.\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m going to bind her hands down, so she doesn\rquote t hurt herself. Or do anything stupid.\rdblquote\par
\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\sl252\slmult1\qc ***\par
\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\sl252\slmult1\tab Outside the hut Hoar and Gili sat on the stoop, overlooking the village. Neither of them said anything, which was not the same as neither of them saying anything. A growing bubble of silence was manufactured, traded and taxed until Hoar unearthed a safe, unimportant topic, collapsing the silence economy. \par
\tab\ldblquote What do you usually do with the bones?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Hmm?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The bones,\rdblquote  Hoar said again, running forefinger over palm. \par
\tab\ldblquote Bury them somewhere no one\rquote ll find them. Burn the flesh and scatter the ashes. Just get rid of it. When I was a girl, one of father\rquote s apprentices lost his finger to a carless slip of the knife. Idiot. He kept the bones in a vial on his mantle. \par
\tab Down in the village a few people were stirring, those whose days began when the sun\rquote s first rays peeked over the curtain of mountains and ended when it\rquote s last sank beneath the horizon. There were rooves to clear, paths to cut and fires to rekindle for the morning breakfast. Winter has fallen, and Hrult was ready for it.\par
\tab\ldblquote What\rquote re you going to do about the Azil?\rdblquote\par
\tab Hoar shrugged, watching with hawk like eyes a three dots that were children made almost spherical beneath layer upon layer of coats in the village bellow. One child was plowing a path to the village square, the other two chasing in their wake.  \par
\tab\ldblquote Hoar, she\rquote s an Azil.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I know.\rdblquote\par
\tab Hoar\rquote s frown was inscrutable. Gili tried again, \ldblquote Hoar. She\rquote s- she might be dangerous. Did you ever consider you saved a v- an Azil not worth saving?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I did.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Then why did you bring her back?\rdblquote\par
\tab  Hoar shrugged. The children had reached the elder tree in the village center. One, the tallest, was hoisting their fellows into the lower branches.\par
\tab\ldblquote What are you going to do when the drugs wear off and she\rquote s some sort of monster?\rdblquote\par
\tab The last, earthbound child raised their arms and was pulled up by their friends, leaving the mundane ground for loftier goals. The old man remembered climbing the tree so many decades ago and felt very old indeed. \par
\tab\ldblquote Hoar. Hoar! Look at me!\rdblquote  Gili was glaring at him. \ldblquote God dammit Hoar, we have to be sensible about this.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What? If she is a monster what do you want me to do?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Take care of it.\rdblquote  Hoar frowned at her, strands of silver beard tickling his face in the high altitude wind. \ldblquote I\rquote m not saying she\rquote s going to come down a blood thirsty beast ready to slit our throats but she wasn\rquote t exactly acting sane.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You said that drug makes people do things,\rdblquote  Hoar said with the air of a man adrift finding a piece of flotsam to hold tight to.\par
\tab\ldblquote It can,\rdblquote  said Gili, carefully, \ldblquote but sometime people do violent things because they\rquote re violent people,\rdblquote  Hoar shifted his gaze back to the village. The children were halfway up the tree. The one who had helped the others up had halted, but the leader was climbing further and further up daring the wind to rattle the branches.\par
\tab\ldblquote Maybe she\rquote s a perfectly normal Azil, who decided it would be a great idea to go up into the mountains just before the first snow fell and is very bad at lighting fires. Or maybe there\rquote s a reason someone was trying to kill her.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m not going to try and hurt her just because someone else did.\rdblquote\par
\tab Gili fought back the urge to shake him. \par
\tab\ldblquote Will you at least promise me that you\rquote ll watch her? For any signs that something\rquote s going wrong or that you made a mistake.\rdblquote\par
\tab The child had almost made it to the top, climbing thinner and thinner branches. They\rquote d either OTHER CHILD IS CHASING REWRITE THINGY BOB IF SVELSA SURVIVES? \par
\tab\ldblquote How much do I owe you for the medicine,\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote What?\rdblquote  said Gili, caught off guard. \par
\tab\ldblquote For the medicine. Erythromysin.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Nothing. That stuff\rquote s dirt cheap,\rdblquote  Hoar winced, as if bitten by an insect. \par
\tab\ldblquote For your labor then. The VCP, working late.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Nothing! Hoar, I know you can\rquote t afford this.\rdblquote  \par
He glowered at her. \ldblquote Not at the Azil price.\rdblquote  \par
Gili tossed her head angrily. \ldblquote Not at any price. I saw what you called living, you barely have enough for one person to make it through the winter. It wasn\rquote t like that when we were kids.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We\rquote re not kids anymore.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You think I don\rquote t know that? You think I don\rquote t know why either? Go to Crater, talk to him. You know he\rquote ll buy your furs at twice the price you\rquote ve been getting and you can live like a human being again.\rdblquote  Hoar stood with an avalanche of cracks moving up his spine as he straightened.  \ldblquote Or let me take the Azil. You can\rquote t support her and yourself if you continue to be this pig headed,\rdblquote  Gili said. Far, far below, the climber was resting on branches so thin they were hardly thicker than a hair at this distance. Below, their pursuer waited, confident that the child would come down, either in their own time or at a time of the wind\rquote s choosing. MOVE THIS TO END. RESPACE CHILDREN DOWN BELOW.\par
\tab\ldblquote No.\rdblquote  He turned to cabin. \par
\tab\ldblquote God dammit Hoar, can\rquote t you see I\rquote m trying to do you a favor?\rdblquote  Gili scrambled to her feet to follow after him but she was sluggish. Tired and the felt onset of chills like birds can sense the coming change to the dark season.\par
\tab\ldblquote Will this favor end with her strung up by her feet, throat open for the flies?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Spike me, what is wrong with you?\rdblquote  Hoar heard the hurt and anger in her voice and told himself he didn\rquote t care. He \par
\tab\ldblquote I have some purchases to make.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Who\rquote ll you sell to if you won\rquote t go to Crater. Who?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The only honest human in Hrult.\rdblquote\par
\pard\fi180\li90\cf0\f1\par
}
