{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\fi180\li90\cf1\fs20 Hoar's legs buckled slowly, his weight sliding down the door to the root cellar to rest on the twice packed snow. Sixty, maybe eighty meals worth of rice, turnips, onions, dried apples and what meager else he could smoke and jar. Minus the venison, he was looking at the leanest winter in memory and that was for one person. Hoar's stomach growled for the first time since coming off the mountain, like a bear waking from hibernation. His legs spasmed painfully as he tried to straighten them out. He needed to rest. He closed his eyes letting windblown ice crystals melt against his face and in the shallow heat of his breath. \par
Eigthy meals and two mouths to feed. He could sell the window glass but without the Trader, he doubted any of the humans would buy it for more than a fraction of its values. Val had always loved that window. He'd always make the effort, when able to watch the sunrise framed by wood and shear mountain sides made purple with the haze of distance. Towards the end, he'd helped Roa into the chair embossed with roses and ivy so she could watch. \par
There were other things he could sell, an clay coffee pot with only one chip, his handmirror polished with viniger and his second knife. But a lean winter was a lean winter, humans weren't likely to give up their hard earned stores and he couldn't ask the other Azil. \par
Gili's parting words chilled him far more than the snow collecting on his numb limbs, "You don't know here and you can't trust her. Someone want's her dead and they damn well must have a reason."\par
"She's my responsability," Hoar had said, stuborrn as a rock. \par
"She's your responsabilty until she's not. If something goes wrong and you can't stop her, I'll find someone who can."\par
Hoar hadn't known what to say to that and Gili had left, grimly satisfied with the last word. Too little certainty, too little rest and too little food. He caught himself humming the chorus of the song Roa had chastized his grandfather for singing. \par
"When the night has come and Autum's gone"\par
"And winter bears her teeth,"\par
Hoar blinked and felt the ice riming his lashes catch. A thin, querilous note was slicing through his music like a scalpel through flesh. It came from his cabin, the cry of someone whose nerves were waking from a long sleep. \par
Hoar forced himself to his feet by will alone and staggered back to the warmth of the place he didn't sleep. The woman was still where he Gili and he had left her an hour ago, limbs and head propped by pillows and trussed to immobility "for her own good," Gili had said. Hoar frowned at that. \par
\par
Makes up mind\par
Plays music for her\par
She settled down\par
This is where theyu build trust. \par
\par
\par
\par
}
