{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf1\f0\fs20 Hoar said he was ten years old. Well, not quite ten but almost ten. If pressed, he would admit that he was a few months from his tenth birthday, but that wasn't important. What mattered was he was old enough to follow his grandfather on his trapping run and far too old to be afraid, Hoar told himself and knew he was lying. But then, he never had been a very good liar.\par
\ldblquote They can\rquote t feel it if they\rquote re stunned. Nice and quick, that\rquote s the way."\par
The same hands that played the svelsa so beautifully that Hoar wished his heart might stop just to hear it better brought the mallet down with a crack. The velvet touch, they called it down in the village. Ladies down on the delta paid more for perfect pelts, so the trappers and woodsman in the Golemel learned to kill without scars. A damaged scarlet fox fur scarf didn\rquote t sell. Hoar\rquote s grandfather lifted the little creature into the air, still anchored to the ground by the trap. It hung limply, as though already the little soul inside had reliquished its hold. In a movement so natural Val might simply have been playing a chord, he cut its throat. In the woods, on the mountain side, a living thing died. \par
"Put them out nice and quick. Can you do that?\rdblquote\par
Hoar nodded, though his stomach lurched and there was a hunted look in his eyes contrary to their business that night. He wasn't afraid. He wasn't. \par
They heard its scream over a hundred meters away, and the gnarled old tree of a woodsman doubled his pace. \ldblquote Best be quick. It wouldn\rquote t do to leave the poor thing there a second longer than we need to.\rdblquote  eedn\rquote t have said anything. Hoar practically ran to the creak where they\rquote d laid their trap a fortnight ago.  A fox has a very human like scream, almost like a child. It was all too easy for Hoar to imagine it was Crater up ahead, or Gili. \par
One paw locked in the steel jaws of the trap, the fox tried to rise to its feet when it saw him. The leg was torn and a stained a deeper red than the foxes rusted orange pelt. It wasn't sleek like the scarves Vaicour ladies wore. Rather, it was shot through with flecks of dirt and pine needles. Last year, Hoar had cleaned the pelts for his grandfather. It had been fun, almost like a game. It wasn't a game anymore. His grandfather pressed the mallet into Hoar\rquote s limp fingers. \ldblquote Don\rquote t hesitate, and don\rquote t be shy. Right between the eyes.\rdblquote\par
Hoar approached the fox. It shrank back weakly, mouth open, a red tongue lolling on a bed of spittle. Golden eyes looked at him flecked with a vital defiance. It barked a raw throated bark at him and pulled back as far as the chain allowed. Hoar halted.  \ldblquote Don\rquote t hesitate,\rdblquote  his grandfather urged him, standing reassuringly at his back, confidence and trust resonating through his bass voice. Hoar clutched the mallet tightly and swung. Just before it hit, he closed his eyes. \par
\ldblquote Well done, well done. That\rquote s the hardest part. Now finish it, nice and quick,\rdblquote  the mallet was tugged from his unresisting hands and the flensing knife proffered. Hoar took it numbly, the stunned fox lying before him as though it already dead. It\rquote s just an animal, he told himself. And picked it up gingerly by the scruff of its neck, like it was a kitten and he its mother. Nice and quick, he thought and touched flensing knife to throat. The fox came to life, thrashing wildly within his grasp. It clawed, and bit, and screamed and screamed. Val darted forward, strong, deft fingers driving the hammer blow down but the scream continued and Hoar realized he was screaming. \par
\ldblquote Did it get you? Are you hurt?\rdblquote  His grandfather was shaking him. Val slapped him, once across the face and Hoar finally stopped screaming. "Show me your hands!"\par
\ldblquote I'm fi,\rdblquote  Hoar blubbered profering two, pink hands replete with five fingers each. \par
Val grabbed Hoar up and hugged him in a hugged Hoar tightly to his chest, \ldblquote Don\rquote t scare me like that. I thought it\rquote d taken a finger off you, you damn silly fool.\rdblquote  After a breathe, the old man seemed to calm himself, and spoke in the same, velvet tone he used to speak to the dogs whenever thunder or lightning sent them cowering beneath the bed. \ldblquote Hush, hush. It\rquote s all right. I should have waited another year, for you to be stronger. It\rquote s harder to stun that it looks. When you're ten, you\rquote ll get it.\rdblquote  \par
When Hoar was ten, almost eleven really, he did. But he never forgot the scream of the fox and the dead thing come back to terrified half-life within his two hands.\cf0\f1\par
}
