{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\cf1\f0\fs20 The fire in the ash pit grumbled and wheezed, like an old, hound with crackling joints settling into bed. In the graveyard filled with Azil, living and dead, it was the only thing that could. Every one of the sixty odd Azil scattered about the clearing, backs resting against the moss blanketed tombstones, was wide awake and spellbound by the story that flowed like quicksilver from the aged man by the fireside. Just the far side of gloamlight when humans go to sleep, the cracks and wrinkles of his face pooled with shadows, like the hidden valleys of the Golemel, and in his hands he cradled an instrument. Down on the plains, it would have been called a lute, but here, where the air was clean and the stars could be seen, it was and would always be a svelsa and the man who played it was the greatest musician who had ever lived. Elder Parseek had said so and despite being a Parseek he would know; he\rquote d been as far as Ravnesil and that was at the very foot of the Golemel mountain spine. \par
In a clear, strong tenor that wove through the music like quartz in granite the old man sang clever wanderers and ancient gods from the shadows at the edges of the listeners mind. It was the voice of an angel, and only the most truant of children could have done anything other than listen enraptured. Hoar crept guiltily through the brush like some fey child to the edge of the crowd. So long as he kept quiet, and settled in some shady cradle of rock, the angel need never know he\rquote d been anywhere else.\par
\ldblquote Which story is it!\rdblquote  Crater hissed, managing to find the only piece of kindling a kilometer not scavenged for fire and trod heavily on it. There was the unmistakable snap of a perfect plan breaking. The music paused as Val, oldest Azil in Hrult, finest minstrel of the Golemel locked hazel eyes with his eight year old grandson who had frozen like a startled deer. The music resumed and Hoar prayed that darkness concealed his black eye. \par
\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\sl252\slmult1\ldblquote But Vlesch the Cruel was clever, and did not trust the stranger arrived at the gate. He may look like a wolf, howl like a wolf, but only a wolf smelled like a wolf. Vlesh bent its mighty neck, as thick as an oak, down, down until its eyes were on a level with Kel\rquote s. The Vendigore\rquote s jaws were so massive it could have swallowed Kel whole but the bard did not show fear. Vlesh puffed, and a fowl wind of meat and rotting teeth bathed Kel. Then, with its great snuffling nose, Vlesh drew in a breath. The tribe held theirs.\rdblquote\par
\pard\fi180\li90\sa160 Throughout the clearing every Azil ceased breathing.\par
\ldblquote Which one is Vlesch?\rdblquote  the only human whispered, adding a jarring note to the chord the old man held. Hoar shot him a withering look. If they\rquote d really been hidden in Kel\rquote s magic satchel, then the Vendigore would have heard them and they would all have been gobbled.\par
\ldblquote But the Azil did not call their savior Kel the Trickster for nothing. Kel had sealed the inside of the of the wolf skin she wore with a mixture of wolf urine and sap and not even the stink of fear radiating from the tribe she hid within her satchel reached Vlesch\rquote s nostrils. Vlesch growled with pleasure. \lquote If it looks like a wolf, howls like a wolf and smells like a wolf then it must be a wolf. I am sorry I doubted you, pup, but the Azil trapped within this valley are cunning and deceitful and none more so than Kel\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote\rquote I have heard of this Kel, down in the villages. Kel the Clever, they call her. Kel the Beautiful they say. Kel the humble.\rdblquote  Val flashed wolfish grin at the crowd and the stifled their laughter. \ldblquote They say that she is even cleverer than you,\rdblquote  Kel said demurely, turning her eyes downward.\par
Vlesch roared, setting every creature within the valley that had survived the famine running for their burrows. \ldblquote Kel the Liar! No one is as clever as Vlesch! No one is as mighty! No one is as quick!\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote Down in the villages, they say Kel is too quick to be caught by your claws,\rdblquote  Kel said, goading the great Vendigore further. \par
 \ldblquote We shall see if she can still spread such lies without a tongue!\rdblquote  bellowed Vlesch the Cruel. \par
\ldblquote But great Vlesch, you cannot leave this gate. You must guard the entrance to paradise lest the Azil slip through into the human world.\rdblquote  \par
The wolf headed Vendigore paused, regarding what it thought was cub with one great, grey eye. \ldblquote You will guard this gate until I get back. I shall tear the village from the ground and shake it till Kel\rquote s body is broken! Then we shall see who is clever.  \par
\ldblquote But I cannot guard this gate, I am too small and have no weapons to defend myself,\rdblquote  Kel said, trying to hide her mirth. But Kel had pushed her luck too far. The great Vendigore stabbed fixed her with one, steely grey eye. Then, with a quick slash the Vendigore pricked its paw. Blood welled and Kel suddenly wished she had remained very far away indeed. Vlesch squeezed three drops of blood into Kel\rquote s head. Kel\rquote s feet tried to flee but she forced herself to stand tall and let the cursed droplets fall. One. Kel felt it seeping through the skins she wore. Two. She felt it touch her skin and knew she was tainted forever. Three. For the third she almost held still but her will wavered and she shied back. The third droplet fell on her chest and sank into the satchel. \par
\ldblquote Do not fear, little pup. My blood will strengthen you. Any Azil who tries to cross into human lands cannot hope to stand against even a fraction of my strength. Should you see Kel, howl and I will return to crush her.\rdblquote\par
And, leaving Kel to guard the gate against herself, Vlesch the Foolish charged into the forest knocking down trees and bellowing for the Trickster\rquote s head. As soon as it was gone, she tore the tainted wolfskin from her head and scrambled through gate to behold a beautiful sight. Green pasture and warm air, blue skies and game bounding through the trees. Kel had to show the villagers at once! She slid from the wolf skin she wore and tore open the satchel but had forgotten Vlesch\rquote s blood. Had she been more careful, she might not have let the blood slip inside. She was quite swift, and caught her mistake almost before she had made it but a few flecks of Vlesch\rquote s blood touched Angar, the clever boy who had found where Vlesch had hidden Kel\rquote s Svelsa, and who had entered the satchel last. And as the Azil tumbled from the satchel into the land Kel had promised them, so too did the wolf\rquote s curse. It followed Angar, and was passed onto his descendant, their descendants too in a chain unbroken until today.\rdblquote\par
It was several seconds after the final silver chord died away that the spell broke and the Azil normal sounds returned to the world. The men and woman who\rquote d come to watch rose, stretched and scooped up their children in their arms to leave. But one little girl, a full year younger than Hoar and therefore little more than a toddler, slipped away from her father and ran up to Hoar\rquote s grandfather. The old bard paused, halfway through tuning a peg on his svelsa that had loosened during the performance. \par
\ldblquote But what happened to Kel, grandpa? Was she cursed too?\rdblquote\par
Val chuckled, his white beard quivering like cirrus caught in a sudden wind, and smiled down beatifically on the little girl making his real grandson squirm. \par
\ldblquote Many things, child, many things. Kel was tenacious and never stopped stopped searching for a way to cure herself and her people. Hoar!\rdblquote  He barked, dragging the hapless boy from the crowd. Hoar had been trying to slip off to the cabin hidden safely in the pack heading down that path. Now, he was trapped. Coming here had been a mistake. \ldblquote Hoar, tell little Roan what Kel did next.\rdblquote\par
Hoar stopped just short of the firelight, hoping the green of his embarrassment would conceal the black and blue ring that throbbed painfully at his eye and temple. \ldblquote\par
\ldblquote Come closer, come closer. She doesn\rquote t bite.\rdblquote\par
There was no choice. Hoar took a few casual steps to the side, into the light but facing the girl. His eye, the left eye that throbbed with a nimbus of pain, remained coolly in shadow. The old man\rquote s eyes narrowed ever so slightly. \par
\ldblquote Kel sought the advice of an angel who ruled a far-off land of the humans and though Kel was of the Azil, the angel was fair and just to all, no matter how lowly. The angel-\rdblquote\line\par
\ldblquote Seraphriel,\rdblquote  Val interrupted with the snap of the clasp, sealing the svelsa into the fine leather bound case. The boy flushed further still. \par
\f1\tab\f0\ldblquote Seraphriel,\rdblquote  continued Hoar, \ldblquote Told Kel that she would have to act fast, for the transformation was already happening. Kel must complete eight impossible tasks for the angel, and only then could she embark on the final task, not of slaying Vlesch, but making peace with it and returning its blood.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And that is a tale for another night. Eight tales, truth be told,\rdblquote  Val said, laying one gnarled root like hand on her shoulder. She pouted, turning to her mother.\par
\tab\ldblquote I like it better with music,\rdblquote\par
\tab Hoar\rquote s retreat into the neck of his coat was impeded by the hand that clapped him firmly on the shoulder. \ldblquote And music you will have, whether I or Hoar tells it. I am teaching him everything there is to know about the svelsa. He\rquote ll be just like his grandfather.\rdblquote  Hoar looked up, forgetting momentarily the pain cushioning his eye. \par
\tab Roan looked like she had her doubts, comparing Hoar\rquote s round face and close cropped black hair to the snowy gorse running rampant from the crest of his head down to his chest. She looked like she was about to say something but by then her father had caught up and took her firmly by the hand. Even if she had pointed out his head was shaped funny, or his nose was too pointy Hoar wouldn\rquote t have cared, or even heard. He peeked out from the woolen cave mouth, up the hairy tree trunk of an arm twice as thick as his thigh to the hazel eyes that sparkled after the last Azil, leaving the clearing. Hoar was going to be just like him someday. \par
\tab Like a clearwater trout jolted from its languid rest in the sun by a raptor\rquote s claws, Val\rquote s hand sunk into Hoar\rquote s shoulder. Hoar tried to twist away, but was caught dead in his grandfather\rquote s talons. A yelp caught in his throat as the old man yanked him around, big hands cupping the boy\rquote s chin and forcing it towards the light. Val studied him, turning Hoar\rquote s head this way and that as though he were a scrimshaw with a defect and the old man was wondering if he could salvage the piece. Hoar clamped his jaw shut and stopped struggling. He would not whimper. \par
\tab\ldblquote What did you do?\rdblquote  the Azil growled in the same voice he did for Vlesch. But where Vlesh was stupid and easily tricked, Val wasn\rquote t. \par
\tab\ldblquote Hoar was incredible!\rdblquote  Hoar felt the hand release immediately. Val\rquote s head had whipped round to find the watcher. It was Crater. Now the Azil were gone, he\rquote d come out from behind the stone and was loping towards them across the grass. \ldblquote You should have seen it! Hoar was incredible!\rdblquote  With a flash of dread, Hoar realized Crater was going to actually tell Val what had happened. Abstentious Hoar would too. But there was truth telling, there was lying and then there was diplomacy. Just then, Crater tripped over his large feet and almost fell. He didn\rquote t see the tight, sharps shake of Hoar\rquote s head and in any case, wouldn\rquote t have only have asked confusedly why Hoar was shaking his head. \par
\tab Crater came right up to Hoar senior chest heaving from the acceleration and exhilaration of coming to the rescue. \ldblquote Parseek didn\rquote t expect a thing, the oaf. Not a thing. And Hoar- and I just jumped in there and whack! I think he might have been crying. The Azil girl was crying but Parseek was too. He was definitely crying. It was incredible!\rdblquote  \f1\par
\f0 Despite his mastery of the word \lquote incredible,\rquote  Crater was not gifted with the story tellers art. \par
\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\sl252\slmult1\ldblquote Slow down, slow down,\rdblquote  Val admonished, \ldblquote Take a deep breath and tell me everything,\rdblquote  He took Crater gently by the shoulders, stopping what would have been a blow by blow recreation of events had Crater been able not to interrupt himself halfway through each punch and duck to pantomime the start a new scene. Crater took a deep breath. \ldblquote There was Parseek and Gorgem, pushing around some Azil girl,\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Ulma,\rdblquote  Hoar interjected, trying to read his grandfather\rquote s face. It was like reading the mood of a stone.\par
\ldblquote Right. Ulma. The goat girl. Parseek and Gorgem were saying the most dreadful things you\rquote d ever heard, insults, curses and threats against her very life. They said they\rquote d throw her mud pond and drown her and-\par
\f1\tab\f0\ldblquote They said it looked like she washed her hair in the mud pond,\rdblquote  Hoar said hurriedly, reeling the ecstatic Crater down to earth again. \ldblquote They weren\rquote t trying to kill her.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote They might have been! Anyway, they\rquote d pushed her into the dirt! And she scratched up something bad, blood all over.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Sap. It was sap,\rdblquote  Hoar cut in once more and this time took the reins. \ldblquote I don\rquote t know what was going on, only Ulma was crying and Gorgem was laughing and Parseek-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Was saying the most dreadful things,\rdblquote  Crater said, jamming a sentence into the crack in Hoar\rquote s narrative. But before he could hammer the wedge in, Hoar continued.\par
\tab\ldblquote Parseek was being Parseek. So I stepped in there and asked what was going on.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote He shouted at Parseek!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I didn\rquote t mean for it to happen, but Ulma was crying and I did like you said,\rdblquote  hoping to past instructions could be stretched into some defense. \ldblquote I got hit, Ulma got away and it isn\rquote t any big trouble\rdblquote  Hoar paused, searching the old man\rquote s craggy face hint of anger or pride but Hoar might as well have asked the wind. Hoar wished he hadn\rquote t, because after half a second, Crater\rquote s patience had run out. \par
\tab\ldblquote That isn\rquote t what happened at all! Hoar just leapt down there and shoved Parseek and I was coming up to help of course but that fatty Gorgem was there and I had to deal with her so I didn\rquote t see exactly what happened but then Hoar punched Parseek right in the chest. Parseek hit him back of course, in the face! They knew they\rquote d met their match and ran off quick. It was incredible! A few more seconds though, and I would have had Gorgem,\rdblquote  Crater said with incredible inaccuracy. If the story continued to grow in scope and heroism by the sixth retelling Hoar and Crater would be fighting off a Mograthi invasion force. \par
The truth was much humbler. From where Parseek had knocked Hoar to the ground, his vision bursting like his head were full of fireflies, Gorgem was sitting on Crater\rquote s back pinning him as effectively to the ground as a fallen tree traps a logger. Parseek had to pull her off, and they\rquote d left hurriedly through the trees before either of the would be heros had regained their feet. \par
Story told, Hoar\rquote s grandfather contemplated them for a long moment, long enough for even Crater\rquote s seemingly boundless self confidence to waver. Then, like a judge extracting testimonial, said \ldblquote You struck the Parseek boy?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote They had Ulma cornered.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You struck the Parseek boy.\rdblquote  Val held out the question like it was a hot coal and he was waiting for Hoar to hold out his ungloved hands. Hoar did.\par
\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote First.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote\par
At last, Crater seemed to grasp that, after explaining the nobility of their cause, they weren\rquote t going to be congratulated. So when the old man\rquote s directed his next question at Crater he gulped..\par
\ldblquote And you fought too.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I was the only one fought. Crater,\rdblquote  Hoar began but fell silent beneath the reaping gaze of his grandfather. Crater could still take it back. He hadn\rquote t actually hit anyone, that dubious honor went to Hoar alone. Crater looked to the gallows resignation on his friends face. Hoar shook his head, hoping Crater took the hint. Crater stuck out his chin. \par
\ldblquote I fought too so I get my portion of the punishment.\rdblquote\par
Val nodded and led the boys back along the Kladbische path. \par
\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\sl252\slmult1\qc ***\par
\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\sl252\slmult1\f1\tab\f0 There is a cabin overlooking the valley of Hrult and, as far as the mayor knew, it was the highest spot in the Golemel anyone had ever built. On official records held in the town hall, it belonged solely to Roa, Hoar\rquote s seniors wife. He couldn\rquote t own it; no Azil owned land. But he had made it his own, etching the imprint of his soul into hand carved chairs, the ornate cabinet filled with useless, precious things and the single bed. For the past month, there were two extra mattresses. Roa had laid them out for her wards and would pack them back up when the military cots down on the plains were packed away, the Mograthi campaign was over and done with and the human conscripts returned to Hrult. Till their return, Crater, the store keep\rquote s son and Gili Ague, daughter of the butcher and breeders, futures were kept by Roa and her husband.  \par
\tab For Hoar and Crater, three immediate futures hung from the backside of the woodshed door. The switch, the strap and the scourge. The first was a pinky thin, wasp sting birch Hoar replaced each year. It stung like a hornet bite and came out each time Hoar swore or committed the crime of talking back. If his grandfather was angry, it would leave red lines that echoed the switch\rquote s first sting whenever Hoar used his hands the following day. But if his grandfather was truly angry, he brought down the belt. It was made of heavy leather, old and frayed from use. Val\rquote s grandfather had used it on him, and he had used it on Hoar\rquote s father. The angry red wheels that marked its passing wouldn\rquote t fade for weeks, burning like poison oak beneath the skin. Its use was rare. Hoar had only incurred its bite three times. Twice for fighting with other Azil children and once a year earlier, he had been careless with his grandfather\rquote s svelsa and broke a tuning pin. That was the angriest he\rquote d ever seen his grandfather. That night, standing shirtless in the grass behind the woodshed so he wouldn\rquote t ruin one of his few shirts, Hoar wondered if his grandfather chose the scourge. For a second, his grandfather\rquote s hand had dragged across the top of the third future, a kraken of leather with a dozen barbed lashes and Hoar thought that this time, he might die. But then, his grandfather gripped the woven handle of the strap instead. It was the worst hiding he\rquote d ever received but Hoar had been glad of it. He knew the strap and the future that awaited them now.\par
\tab\ldblquote Don\rquote t think. It\rquote s easier if you don\rquote t think.\rdblquote  he whispered to Crater who was waiting defiantly in the chill night air as his grandfather unlocked the woodshed door.\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m not afraid,\rdblquote  Crater said back. \par
\tab\ldblquote And don\rquote t look. Focus on a point ahead of you and stare at that. Or close your eyes tight as you can.\rdblquote  \par
The old man disappeared halfway into the shadow, feeling along the wall. \par
\f1\tab\f0\ldblquote I\rquote ve been beaten before. I broke my mother\rquote s vase, the blue one, and she\rquote s got a temper.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The old man found his tool and unhooked it. \par
\tab\ldblquote Don\rquote t listen. Listen to the rushing in your ears so you can\rquote t hear the whistle.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote My mother uses a broom, not some stick. A broom hurts. A stick doesn\rquote t.\rdblquote  \par
Hoar forgot his advice and looked to Val. His grandfather had the switch.\par
\f1\tab\f0\ldblquote Hands.\rdblquote  He said to Crater who grit his teeth and put out both hands. Val nodded with approval and brought down the switch. Once, twice three times the branch wailed through the air and Crater did not cry out. The old man nodded once more and Crater stood noticeably straighter, a proud jut to his jaw.\par
\tab Hoar took his place, looking with fear and a glimmer of hope at the judge of his world. Val only said, \ldblquote Hands.\rdblquote\par
\tab Steeling himself, Hoar raised his hands. He knew, knew something was coming. The punishment for fighting was the strap. That was all there was to it. Yet the blows that landed on the meat of his palms was almost comically weak. It was over before Hoar knew it.\par
\tab While Val was returning the switch to its hook, Crater leaned in and spoke into Hoar\rquote s ear, \ldblquote You\rquote re so lucky! That was nothing, mother\rquote s much harsher than that!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yeah,\rdblquote  stammered Hoar, still not trusting his grandfather wouldn\rquote t return for the real punishment with the strap. But Val only swept up the svelsa\rquote s case from where he had laid it down and spoke in his voice that could carry across a crowded glade as clear as music. \par
\tab\ldblquote I am proud of both of you.\rdblquote  Val knelt so that he was eye to eye with the little boys. \ldblquote Stand up for yourself. Stand up for the weak and accept the consequences. That is the Golemel way. Be like Kel the Brave. Fight for what is right.\rdblquote  The budding head of hope blossomed in pride soaking up the rays. He\rquote d done well. Crater and maybe Gili too\rquote s coming to live with them would be a buffer, keeping his Grandfather happy. They were the best thing to come from his mother and father going away.\par
\tab\ldblquote Off to bed with you, and be quiet. You know Roa hates to be woken,\rdblquote  Val said, chivying the little human toward the cabin. He was smiling a warm, paternal smile. \par
\ldblquote Goodnight Hoar! See you tomorrow!\rdblquote  Crater said, cracking a yawn so wide a swallow could have flown in and disappeared. Hoar smiled a rare smile. Tomorrow there would be mighty towers to climb and forts to garrison, though as Gili always said whenever Hoar and Crater looked like they were having too much fun, \ldblquote You\rquote re just climbing trees and stacking rocks you know. If any of this was real you woundn\rquote t be acting so silly. You might even be dead.\rdblquote  She was right of course. Gili was always right. \par
The cabin\rquote s door closed with a splinter driving creak sealing the human\rquote s candlelit world from the Azil\rquote s moonlit world. This was the Azil time. This was Hoar and Val\rquote s time. \par
\ldblquote Can you teach me how to play that last song? I want to tell Vlesh\rquote s story to Gili and Crater! Can I borrow the svelsa tomorrow?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote How dare you,\rdblquote  Val said. Clouds had passed across the moon and Hoar couldn\rquote t see his grandfather\rquote s face but he didn\rquote t need to. \ldblquote How dare you,\rdblquote  Val repeated, lower this time. It wasn\rquote t the voice he used for Vlesh. It was colder, pitched so softly that no one but Hoar could hear and carried more fury than Vlesh ever could. \ldblquote You think you deserve to play the svelsa after what you did?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I don\rquote t,\rdblquote  Hoar began but Val\rquote s stone crushing hands shot out gripping the frightened boy by both arms, almost lifting him from the ground. \par
\ldblquote Don\rquote t speak. Don\rquote t say a word. You struck a human. Not just any human but the mayor\rquote s son.\rdblquote  Val hissed, shaking Hoar. The old man was half bending, half lifting Hoar off the ground up to his terrible face. \ldblquote And you struck first,\rdblquote  Val spat. He dropped Hoar who managed not to collapse, despite every muscle having frozen like sap in a tree killing winter. \par
  \ldblquote I see your father\rquote s been soft on you. I shouldn\rquote t have been so soft with him.\rdblquote  Val said, striding to the woodshed and pulling it open. The clouds shifted, and moonlight fell on the tools hanging from the back of the door. The switch. The strap and the scourge. \par
Hoar\rquote s throat unstuck. \ldblquote But you already punished us,\rdblquote  he squeaked.\par
\ldblquote Did I tell you to speak? Did I?\rdblquote  Val snarled, the bones clenching his fist so hard the bones ground. Hoar closed his mouth.\par
\ldblquote Yes you paid the human price for children scuffling in the dirt. But you aren\rquote t human, Hoar. We aren\rquote t human. We are the monsters from the stories that mother\rquote s tuck their children into bed with. We aren\rquote t like them and even if you forget it, they never will. They know we are Azil and it\rquote s time you learned what that means.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote This is the price a human who fights another human must pay.\rdblquote  Val said running his hand along the length of the birch that had nipped Crater and Hoar with all the bite of a teething puppy. \par
\ldblquote This is the price an Azil who fights another Azil must pay,\rdblquote  Val continued, fingers curling around the handle of the thick strap but he did not stop there. Hoar had stopped breathing. He knew what was coming next.\par
\ldblquote And, if he is very, very lucky, this is the price an Azil pays who fights a human.\rdblquote  Val took the scourge off its hook. Hoar closed his eyes. \i Don\rquote t look. Close your eyes tight as you can. \i0 The crunch of his grandfather\rquote s big, heavy boots over leaves, circling around made the hair on Hoar\rquote s neck stand straight as pine trees in the shadow of a great mountain. \i Don\rquote t listen. Focus on the rushing in your ears so you can\rquote t hear the scream. \i0 He didn\rquote t notice how his legs quivered like a sapling in a breeze, only followed the mechanical motion of Val\rquote s command \ldblquote Shirt,\rdblquote  pulling it over his head. Something was pushed into his mouth. He bit down and tasted leather. Then, there was a long, long pause. \i Don\rquote t think. \par
\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\sl252\slmult1\qc\i0 ***\f1\par
\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\sl252\slmult1\f0 When it was over, someone picked the quivering little boy up, off the ground and bundled him into strong arms. The belt leather was gently tugged from the boy\rquote s mouth, a semi-circle of indents pressed deep into the hide. Then, svelsa case under one arm, boy cradled under the other, someone carried them both down the Kladbische. \par
\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\sl252\slmult1\qc ***\f1\par
\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\sl252\slmult1\tab\f0 Hoar returned to his senses when he realized someone was tuning a svelsa. \i Strange,\i0  he thought. Val had put the instrument away in perfect tune. Curled in a ball on the lap of his Grandfather, Hoar felt him take a breath and sing. \par
\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\qc When the night grows long | and harvest\rquote s gone and | winter bares her teeth,\par
When the sky weeps ice | and rooftop heights are | buried underneath,\par
When the hart of wood | has frozen blood and | hoarfrost covered horns,\par
Then the Azil weaves a crown of iron thorns.\par
\par
When his store of rice | is only dust and | meat a fantasy,\par
When the ravening | of his nothing leaves | naught but agony,\par
When his body\rquote s bare, | and skins he wore were | eaten long ago\par
Then the Azil dons his crown and greets the snow\par
\par
First they seemed like on | ly shadows, or the | dream the Azil sought\par
When he saw the gleam | of demon eyes and | knew that he was caught\par
When instead of leap | ing on him they raised | muzzles to the wind.\par
Smelling chimney smoke the wolves and Azil grinned.\par
\par
Stealing through the night | upon the light and | warmth of men inside\par
Who became the prey | of lupine grey and | that which should have died.\par
When its hunger was | not sated, growing | stronger than before\par
Naught can fill the hollow at an Azil\rquote s core.\par
No, naught can fill the hollow man turned vendigore.\par
\pard\fi180\li90\sa160 The last notes of his silver voice melted into thin air and Hoar allowed himself to breathe. He\rquote d closed his eyes, letting the haunting words bear him far up the mountain where he ran with the wolves. Cold swirling over and around pack but never inside, like water breaking stones, and the air was so crisp he could almost smell the color of snow. He could almost forget the streaks of burning pain across his back. \par
\ldblquote The song isn\rquote t complete,\rdblquote  Val said huskily, as though he were fighting back tears. Hoar looked up and knew that couldn\rquote t be true. His grandfather\rquote s face was serene, not sad. \ldblquote It doesn\rquote t tell how the humans in the village hunted the vendigore down. It doesn\rquote t tell how they put the other Azil out into the snow down to the last child and babe. It doesn\rquote t tell how they froze, starving and hunted because of the actions of one Azil.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I didn\rquote t cry,\rdblquote  Hoar said, the chill of the song still numbing his back.\par
\ldblquote You didn\rquote t,\rdblquote  Val agreed, and there was the quaver in his voice again. He had a tight smile on his face, and looked so proud Hoar dared to hope. \par
\ldblquote I did good?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You did marvelously,\rdblquote  Val said, hugging his grandson to his chest, still holding the delicate svelsa.\par
\ldblquote You\rquote re hurting me,\rdblquote  Hoar said but not complaining. It was good pain, he told himself. It was right.\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m sorry,\rdblquote  Val whispered into his hair, lessening his hug but not letting go. \ldblquote I\rquote m sorry but you have to know the Azil price. You have to know that I\rquote m a monster.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Then I\rquote m a monster too,\rdblquote  Hoar said proudly. \ldblquote I\rquote m an Azil. \par
\pard\fi180\li90\cf0\f2\par
}
