{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\cf1\f0\fs20 Gili sat atop the evaporator as though it were a throne. Her thick calves crossed casually before her like she\rquote d been there all morning, not just a minute, Gili popped another sugar drop into her mouth and smiled at him. Hoar, sixteen and already bearded like an old, moss covered boulder, looked warily around at the stacks of sticky pales, tin molds, scrapers and most significantly the securely bolted door. He frowned.\par
\ldblquote We were just going to have a look,\rdblquote  said Hoar, accusingly.\par
\f1\tab\f0 Gili bit into a sweet drop and rolled her eyes. \ldblquote We are just having a look.\rdblquote  Hoar stared pointedly at the drawstring bag she hadn't had when she entered the shed and she clicked her tongue. \ldblquote Lighten up, Hoar. Would having a little fun kill you?\rdblquote\par
\tab There was a crash from behind Hoar who whirled and then hurled himself to the ground, not because Crater had just jumped enthusiastically down from the high window and landed badly, scattering taps and pail lids, but because of the rifle he obstinately took everywhere with him. It had slipped from his shoulder, the muzzle swinging like the tip of the reaper\rquote s scythe slicing the air where Hoar had stood. \par
\tab\ldblquote Careful, you idiot. Do you want to blow my head off?\rdblquote  Gili snapped. Crater got to his feet, red rising in his neck and cheeks though it was hard to judge if it was from the fall, or from shame. \par
\ldblquote It\rquote s not loaded. Obviously,\rdblquote  Crater mumbled. Massaging his ribs which had made sudden acquaintance with a hardened stirring pole.\par
Why hadn\rquote t Crater just left the rifle leaning against the stump outside? Hoar had laid his grandfather\rquote s svelsa down there when it became apparent he\rquote d be climbing through a window. If Gilli, who Crater and Hoar had boosted through the window first, ever had something to carry, she had Hoar carry it. "Careful," Hoar said, pulling himself upright. \par
Crater whipped around, snarling, \ldblquote I said it\rquote s not loaded!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Lay off him,\rdblquote  Gili said from her high vantage, towering over even Crater. \ldblquote Do I always have to defend you?\rdblquote  She said, more amused than anything else. Hoar studied the room rather than meet her eyes. Huge, amber ingots of the tapper\rquote s crystalized syrup were stacked like gold bars against one wall. They would sell like gold down in the delta cities, not that Dashia, the Azil who harvested and boiled the sap would see a fraction of that. Dashia had a son, Hoar remembered, Rand. Some rare days in spring, Hoar would hear the ring of their hammers, echoing through the still frost bound woods. On rarer days still, he would greet them, Rand usually shrieking with exctiement as if he were a frost sprite materializing from the wood charging over to attach to his leg. Dashia would come out of the woods, laughing and smiling. Rand would ask for stories and Hoar would awkwardly promise next Carnaday. Whenever his grandfather gathered Azil in the clearing to sing songs and tell stories, mother and child would be there. What would Hoar say if Dashia found him here? \par
Crater had found the wall hung with hooks, taps and small hammers. He reached for one, managing to tug it out of its hook to take several experimental swings. When he tried replacing it, the twisted took sprung free with a sound like the click of Gili\rquote s teeth as she bit into another sweet a little too heavily and the hammer fell to the ground. Gili gave a short, sharp, musical laugh and Crater walked quickly away from the pegboard to play with something else, leaving the hammer where it lay. \par
Hoar went to replace it, trying not to think of the nearly empty bag in Gili\rquote s hands when she spoke. \ldblquote There\rquote s a Vaicour family coming to Hrult. They have a daughter,\rdblquote  She said it with a casual air, as though she were merely commenting on the weather, but her eyes were fixed on Crater who had stiffened, the red flush creeping back into his face though he didn\rquote t realize it. Hoar frowned slightly, but didn\rquote t say anything. It was best to keep quiet and out of other people\rquote s business. \par
\ldblquote A Vaicour girl?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s what I said isn\rquote t it?\rdblquote  Gili continued, pretending not to notice Crater\rquote s blush.\par
\ldblquote Good for trade, new blood in town\rdblquote  said Hoar, though it was unlikely he or his grandfather would ever speak more than two words to any Vaicour, ever. \ldblquote I heard you\rquote re father\rquote s having trouble with the new field?\rdblquote  Hoar said, like a sheep dog circling an errant ewe. Everyone who Gili had talked to this week had heard about the escape of two sheep, often more than once. It was a tried and tested way to steer the conversation away from the precipice Gili was goading Crater towards. \par
\ldblquote It\rquote s been grueling,\rdblquote  Gili expounded, \ldblquote I\rquote ve had to watch them every day to see how they got out! I keep telling my father the gate was firmly latched and there\rquote s no way they could have gotten out, it must have been a fluke but he won\rquote t listen. But he won\rquote t listen. All he cares about is if other\rquote s had escaped or if wolves had gotten them.\rdblquote  By now, Hoar had formulated his own idea as to how the creatures had made a bid for freedom; Gili had been in charge of penning the sheep that day. But Gili always stuck to her story once she\rquote d told it. Conversation having been expertly coralled and penned, Hoar settled back more comfortably against a wall, straining to hear any signs of someone approaching the sugar shack. Crater, for his part, was determined to get to the bottom of the new information Gili had dropped like strichanine laced sugar drops, even if it meant plumetting headfirst off a cliff. \par
\ldblquote You\rquote ve already told us twenty times. When\rquote s the Vaicour girl coming? He said, cutting Gili off mid complaint. A flash of vexation crossed her brow and then a smile spread across her face. It was a smile with barbs in it. \par
\ldblquote Any day now. I heard she\rquote s very pretty, and about our age.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Really?\rdblquote  Crater\rquote s voice broke and broke again even as he tried a more manful tone, \ldblquote Why\rquote s she coming here?\rdblquote  Gili laughed, rocking slightly on her perch. It was a hyena\rquote s laugh.  \par
\ldblquote Probably because she\rquote s heard so many wonderful things about hole in the mud Hrult. Like our famous slush, or heaps of firewood, or our stinking dead animal trade. I don\rquote t know, obviously.\rdblquote  \par
The only other child who\rquote d slaughtered as many animals as Hoar was Gili. She seemed to hate it just as much as he did, though not for the same reason. \par
"There are good things here too," Hoar said.\par
"Oh? Like what. Tell us what wonderful things they have here they don't have down on the plateau."\par
Predictably, Hoar's mind went blank. After a pause, he managed, "Trees." \par
Gili gave a musical laugh. "Trees? You think they don't have trees down on thge plateau? They have parks and orchards and the angel wood too. My father says they even have botanical gardens in Vanholm." Hoar frowned, his jaw snapping shut, but Gili wasn't finished. "Do you know what a botanical garden is? Hmm? It's a great big building just for trees with a ceiling made from actual glass and little paths for visitors to walk along." \par
"That can't be true. Nobody could afford that much glass,"\par
"Look at Mr. Expert. Excuse me."\par
"Those are young trees. Not the old forest we have up here," Hoar said stubornly, head down like a he was ready for a blow. \par
"They don't want these dead old forests. Vaicours have taste. They're cultured."\par
"I heard Vaicour ladies like sweet things," Crater was holding up a bottle syrup almost as red as he was. \par
"You've hit on the secret to women," Gili gasped theatrically, licking her thumb and forefinger still sticky from the sugar drops. "We simply can't help ourselves around a sweet man."\par
"Really?" Crater said, oblivious to the precipice ahead. "Do you think, do you think they might like some syrup?\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote Of course not. You really thing some girl with black skin would throw herself at you for a bottle of syrup? And you\rquote d better keep your excitement in check, Crater."\par
Spluttering as if he\rquote d just come out of the pond and blushing scarlet as a the syrup, Crater realized the bulge in his trousers was apparant to all. He turned quickly away, as if perusing the evaporator's tools once more. Gili laughed again, musical and light and nothing like the songs woven from Hoar\rquote s svelsa. \par
\ldblquote Stop laughing.\rdblquote  To Crater, Gili and most of all Hoar\rquote s surprise it was his own voice. A sweet drop slipped from the handful Gili had scooped up, half emptying the bag. For once, she was at a loss for words, and Hoar felt them welling up from his chest. Once you\rquote ve broken through the ice, and the current has taken you, the only way is to keep fighting up. \ldblquote We didn\rquote t laugh last week when Bron turned you down for the harvest festival.\rdblquote  \par
Gili had gone scarlet, and Hoar felt the creep of heat in his face too so that the three of them were so many more bright autumn leaves flaming from gold into red. None of them looking at each other. Each feeling the acute chill of the turning season, they let things cool. Hoar\rquote s heart was still beating fast when Gili breached the silence.\par
\ldblquote There\rquote s trouble beyond the pass, my brother says.\rdblquote\par
Crater took the bait gratefully, and Hoar retained his usual frowning recalcitrance. \ldblquote Father said Ruhiel\rquote s trying to appoint an Azil war minister now. I overheard him discussing it with mother last night when they thought I was sleeping upstairs.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It won\rquote t happen. It can\rquote t.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But an Azil war minister! Think of it!\rdblquote  repeated Crater. Hoar was thinking of it. He didn\rquote t like the idea at all. It\rquote d be bad for Azil everywhere. \par
\ldblquote Orturiel won\rquote t stand for that.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote It\rquote d crush them if they did.\rdblquote  And every Azil too foolish to get out before the mob turned up. \par
\ldblquote Oh? And what do you know about it? Ruhiel\rquote s Veever\rquote s have been making monsters.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What monsters?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Monsters.\rdblquote  Gili rolled her eyes, annunciating slowly as though Crater was being stupid. \ldblquote Sleepless things that can snap swords in half and eat babies. You\rquote d better watch out.\rdblquote  Hoar was trying not to listen, humming to himself silently to drown them out. It have been a stupid, stupid thing to say. \par
Crater slipped his rifle off his shoulder, \ldblquote They\rquote d never get close to me. I\rquote d shoot their eyes out at fifty meters.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote They\rquote d eat your powder before it burned and break you in half.\rdblquote  Hoar wished he hadn\rquote t left his svelsa on the stump. He\rquote d brought, thinking his friends only wanted to wander aimlessly through the woods, shooting at squirrels and joking. \par
\ldblquote What do you know about it, Gili? Orturiel\rquote s Veever\rquote s are ten times as skilled as anyone from Mograthi.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Obviously. But It wouldn\rquote t stoop so low as to order them to make monster. Orturiel\rquote d beat Ruhiel without using Azils.\rdblquote  Gili kept her eyes trained on Crater, but he knew this argument was for him. \par
\ldblquote Obviously,\rdblquote  echoed Crater. \ldblquote I\rquote m just saying, an Azil war minister!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It can\rquote t happen, I\rquote ve told you. Azil\rquote s can\rquote t change. Hoar,\rdblquote  she said. His name ripped through the song in his head and he focused on her. \ldblquote Be a dear and get me another,\rdblquote  she was holding the drawstring bag, empty of sweet drops, out. He took it, numbly, as though he\rquote d been out for hours in the driving snow with nothing but summer weight garb. \par
 \ldblquote I\rquote m going down to the delta next season,\rdblquote  Crater declared, changing the focus away from Azil. Crater was a good friend. \ldblquote I\rquote m going to join the royal army.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote That\rquote s not a terrible idea, Crater. You might be good at it. You\rquote re halfway decent with a rifle.\rdblquote  He wasn\rquote t halfway decent, he was phenomenal Hoar knew. He could stop a hart dead in its tracks at a quarter kilometer, and once he\rquote d hit an elk at nearly three hundred meters. Crater swelled with pride at Gili\rquote s compliment. \par
\ldblquote The Trader said he\rquote ll take me back with him next time he comes. I\rquote ll bring my rifle. I\rquote ve been practicing my Vaicouric. I\rquote m getting good. They\rquote ll make me a corporal on the spot.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote A corporal? Really? Vosh scurrem bettarien au telev ra?\rdblquote  \i\f2 Can you even how to say corporal?\i0\f0\par
\ldblquote E-et scurrem bettariel kin- kin\rdblquote  he faltered. Gili smirks. She\rquote s been talking of going to Kirch for months now, and has always been better at Vaicour than Crater. Hoar didn't understand a word. It didn't matter for him. Azil didn't leave Hrult and Vaicour didn't come here. Except, now a family was. \par
\ldblquote Have you told your mother?\rdblquote  asked Hoar plucking a new bag of sweets from their box. He was thinking of how proud the woman had been of her baby last autumn, and the tears that froze the winter. It had been a reaping baby, there one month and gone in the next.\par
\ldblquote No.\rdblquote  Crater\rquote s pride seems to deflate. He was thinking of his nameless brother too. \ldblquote She thinks I\rquote m just going down to learn the trade.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We can travel together next spring. I\rquote m going to study to be a Veever when I go to Krich.\rdblquote  Gili said, some of the imperiousness drained away. \ldblquote You should come too, Hoar.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I can\rquote t.\rdblquote  Hoar made up a lie, which was even better because it is partially true. \ldblquote My grandmother\rquote s cough is getting worse. They need me here.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Just come with us, your grandfather does the work of two and Roa\rquote s always coughing. They don\rquote t need you.\rdblquote  This wasn\rquote t true. Val did the work of two. His bent, tough as iron old grandfather did the work of four, and it was still barely enough for the Azil price of rice.\par
\ldblquote I think her just steals the work of two, don\rquote t you? What else does he do at night, creeping about like a starving wolf.\rdblquote  The three friends head's swiveled to face the locked door, now open. Parseek leaned in the open doorway, one hand resting on the handle casually blocking their exit. Parseek was shorter than Crater, but more thickly muscled. Handsome with straight, white teeth and a casually graceful mess of chestnut hair, he was beautiful. \par
\ldblquote He doesn\rquote t steal,\rdblquote  Hoar said, his heart beating quicker like a deer when a wolf approaches. Parseek\rquote s eyes slide down to bag of sweet drops still clutched in Hoar\rquote s suddenly sweaty hand and a lazy grin spread across his face.\par
\ldblquote My, how disappointed he\rquote ll be then. His own grandson, a thieving little vendigore.\rdblquote  \par
Crater sprung to his feet, hands balling into fists. Parseek raised a single eyebrow at the bravado, ignoring the rifle over Crater\rquote s back entirely. He only cared about the cornered Azil. Hoar could only think of the disappointed look on his grandmother's face. She'd have to go out immediately, to make apologies for his blunders. After his grandfather had disciplined him, he'd go out too. Not to make amends to the mayor, but to redouble his efforts to catch their supper and blankets. And it was all Hoar's fault for breaking into Parseek's sugar shack. A high ringing of the pump and flow of blood filled his ears. He couldn\rquote t remember a single one of his grandfather\rquote s songs. He could do nothing but stand there with the stolen sugar drops in his fist.\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s mine, Parseek.\rdblquote  It was Gili. She wasn\rquote t stupid. She knew what the Azil price would be if Hoar is caught with stolen property. \par
 \ldblquote If stealing makes it yours then this is mine.\rdblquote  The hand that had been hidden by the sugar shack door came into sight strangling the neck of the svelsa. Hoar felt his blood freeze. \ldblquote I\rquote ve told you before, Gili, Azil\rquote s can\rquote t change.\rdblquote  Gili slipped off the evaporator, and in a flash had stormed up to Parseek jabbing her finger into his chest. \par
\ldblquote Don\rquote t you dare say such an awful thing. Hoar is worth ten times what you are, Old King Parsley.\rdblquote\par
Parseek colored violently, and pushes her away with the svelsa. It wasn\rquote t a hard shove, but the scream of a snapping string mingled with Gili's shriek as she stumbled back, careening off the unforgiving metal of the stove. Crater let out a roar of rage, starting forward. But Crater didn\rquote t get the chance to swing. Someone small, and lean brushed past him like a leaf carried on autumnal winds and a shoulder, hard as a spike of ice with a hoarfrosted mountain behind it rammed into the handsome boy.\par
Hoar blinked down at the sprawling Parseek, his grandfather\rquote s svelsa cradled safely in his arms. He didn\rquote t remember grabbing it back. He looked about confusedly, seeing in Crater a dumbfounded mirror. His eyes met with Gili, who was looking at him in a way he\rquote d never seen before. A hole blossomed in his chest, like pocket of air trapped in ice just waiting for a little more pressure. Then Parseek sucked in a deep lungful and howled. Hoar ran. Where, did not matter. He ran to escape the howl and the hollow at his core. \par
\pard\fi180\li90\cf0\f2\par
}
