{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf1\f0\fs20 When the Trader\rquote s cart rolled over the final rise and Kirch spread out before her in ivory and blue Gili thought her heart might sing. Crater, squashed into the third of the driver\rquote s seat that remained after the trader\rquote s bulk rolled over, was speechless. The Trader just smiled and shook his head, taking in their reactions rather than the majesty of the delta\rquote s city. For one, shining, ivory and blue hour Gili imagined that Kirch had been her one and only dream, and it was a dream come true. She would learn the Vivisectionist\rquote s art from the hands of the masters in Hallowed Tower and become the greatest Veever that ever lived. Then, she\rquote d met Master Illutan, and her dream had become a far-off pinprick of light so out of reach it might have been a comet, burning to cinders and hot gas before it could every reach her.\par
\tab\ldblquote Three cc\rquote s of Calantris. Three, idiot child.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I did use three,\rdblquote  Gili lied. She\rquote d only used two but two should be more than enough.\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ll strangle Aleth next time he pokes his fat neck in here, bringing me a child like you.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Not if I get the corpulent bastard first,\rdblquote  Gili bit back. It had been nothing but shear abuse since the day she\rquote d come to this third rate- this fourth rate Veever. He didn\rquote t even work with people. Dogs. He worked with hairy, filthy, stinking dogs day in and day out. No other Veever in the city would take her, the Trader had explained, not some backwater girl from the Golemel without so much as a letter of recommendation from an Apothacist. She\rquote d been lucky to get a position with a Veever, any Veever, at all, he\rquote d said. After a year, with Illutan\rquote s letter of introduction, she\rquote d be able to enter one of the lesser universities, he\rquote d said. He\rquote d been ever so pleased with the arrangement when he\rquote d made it, passing Gili over to the hack Veever like unsuspecting spare parts. Corpulent bastard.\par
\tab They were in what her master laughably called a surgery. A single, dog sized slab and cold room barely suitable for storing onions and leeks through a hot summer. The equipment was a mongrel collection of spare parts, much like Illutan\rquote s ancient, foul smelling dog Sixart which dribbled and dozed on the far side of the room. The very first surgery Gili had witnessed had been on that dog. Her last functioning kidney had wavered and shut down, the first link in a chain of organs slowly and steadily being lowered into the ground for their final resting. Fortunately for Sixart, there\rquote d been a brutal fight at one of the Omasta rings in the lower quarter, and Master Illutan\rquote s Augmentation Emporium had received a good number of spare parts. Last night they\rquote d reaped the Omasta hound pit\rquote s crop of fresh parts. One, which had been named Kallith, reposed on the slab now, heart beat its last tattoo within the walls of Kallith\rquote s chest as Calantris did its work. She\rquote d live on in other, Gili told herself, so long as she didn\rquote t botch the vitrification.\par
\ldblquote Foolish child,\rdblquote  Illutan barked. Gili\rquote s trembling hands had almost knocked the tray of instruments to the immaculately scrubbed floor as she replaced the syringe. She\rquote d scrubbed it, working on her knees like some serving girl. That was not what an apprentice did. An apprentice was supposed to learning the craft. \ldblquote Do I need to send you back to shelving\rquote s salves and scrubbing floors.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No, sir,\rdblquote  Gili said with clipped politeness.\par
\tab\ldblquote If you can\rquote t do it then say so, child. I won\rquote t have you ruin perfectly good parts.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote I\rquote m fine.\rdblquote  She snapped. Illutan\rquote s eyes narrowed but he didn\rquote t comment. That was just like the man. He\rquote d give her just enough rope to hang herself then watch her swing. Well, she wouldn\rquote t give him the satisfaction. Gili forced her hands to stillness, and picked up the scalpel. It was angel steel, almost three times as heavy, and at three centimeters long, just under the legal limit. She found the jugular and prepared to cut. Just a quick, centimeter cut and then attach the pump. The vitrification fluids were waiting nearby, ready to flood veins and arteries with glass once emptied. It would be easy. \ldblquote I\rquote m fine,\rdblquote  she repeated within her head even as her stomach churned. From the corner, Sixart whined and Gili plunged the knife blade. Kallith writhed to life, arcing blood and thrashing in her bonds. Gili leapt back, shrieking.\par
Illutan snatched the syringe up and slamming the thrashing creature down. This was no meager feat, the fighting hounds of Kirch having been bred and augmented for strength, speed and ferocity in the fighting pits. It was over in a flash, and Illutan\rquote s strong hands were dragging her to her feet. \par
\ldblquote Did it bite you.\rdblquote  Gili\rquote s mouth mumbled something unintelligible \ldblquote Did it bite you!\rdblquote  he was shaking her, wide eyed boring into hers searchingly.\par
\ldblquote N-no,\rdblquote  she managed. He dropped her and, surprisingly, her legs took her own weight. \par
\ldblquote Stupid, foolish child. I said three cc\rquote s. Three! You\rquote re back to shelving and scrubbing till you\rquote ve learned how to listen to simple instructions. Can you manage even that?\rdblquote\par
Anger cut through her shock, but before it could take hold of her tongue and ruin everything she\rquote d worked so hard for these past months, a black wave of shame smothered it. \ldblquote Yes, Master Illutan.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Get out.\rdblquote\par
Gili rose and left the surgery leaving Illutan to clean up her mess. She\rquote d earn her way back into surgery, complete this abominable apprenticeship and become a full fledged Veever. Eventually did. But she never forgot the snap of the razor teeth a fingers breadth from her hands and the dead thing come back to terrified half-life beneath her knife.\par
\pard\fi180\li90\cf0\f1\par
}
