{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\cf1\f0\fs20 Two aging men, both fatter than they had been twenty years ago, sat in the middle of the store, drinking and attempted to conceal satisfied smiles at the dreams of profit. Neither succeeded, but they were gracious enough not to let on to the other that they both knew. One was the store keep, who longed to be a warrior in an era that was no longer, if it had ever existed, and the other was a traveling Trader, who, at the age of forty four, longed to be a sessile Trader. But the Trader still walked his arthritic bones up and down the Golemel and the store keep was content to dream. Not that his dreams didn\rquote t wend their way into the waking world. \par
His store was clean, orderly, eager to dash the malicious hopes of a drill sergeant on the prowl for dirt or dust. Every box of nails and bolt of cloth was stacked with precision, the brands on the side clearly visible and crisp as fried rice cake. Cans of salted pork, hashed beef and pickled rabbit from the slaughter houses of Kirch made impressive towers beside corked bottles containing every brandy, imported oil, tincture or tonic the shop owner\rquote s license could purchase and a few that, strictly, it couldn\rquote t. Those weren\rquote t on display. The shop keeper would have had to possess a Veever\rquote s license, or at least an alchemist\rquote s, to purchase those compounds. He knew that Lina did buy those very same items from the Trader, once they were done haggling, but her drugs were for medicinal purposes and those that he pedaled to those townsfolk who liked their comforts, weren\rquote t. It wasn\rquote t as if anyone got hurt, the boys and girls down in the chemical plants knew what they were doing, and a few coins passing from purse to purse in an immaculately kept storefront was surely clean and wholesome. \par
But that was for closing negotiations. Now was far more mundane and profitable exchanges. On the store keep\rquote s side, \ldblquote The finest products the Golemel have to offer, surpassed by none,\rdblquote  and unloaded from the Trader\rquote s carts, \ldblquote Only the highest quality items from the mills and plants of the delta, hand crafted just for you.\rdblquote  Both were lying, but only a little. That was commerce. A drift of furs, big enough to be a hibernating snow bear would be making the ride down the mountain with the Trader while the crates stamped with the seal of Kirch, Arenholm and ______ would be remaining in the shop. A few were open, revealing rice straw, steel hoe heads and dark glass bottles. \par
\tab The shop keep rolled the second, squat barrel sealed airtight with tar into prominent view. The Trader pressed the lid back down on a tin of rich, white grease, still running his tongue over rendered fat coated lips appreciatively.\par
\tab\ldblquote You will ruin me, Crater my friend, you will ruin me. How will I buy Hrullt gold now? I\rquote ll have hardly any coin left after your highway robbery,\rdblquote  the Trader lamented, pulling a few more coins from an exceedingly fat purse and setting them on barrel top. \par
\ldblquote Robbery? You\rquote ll be able to sell those at triple the price, quadruple that if you go to the quartermaster. Premium bear grease, perfect for cooking, or lubricating steel. I should be asking for double that!\rdblquote  said Crater, pocketing the coins and passing the barrels over unbegrudgingly. He\rquote d been able to push the price higher than he had last summer by almost a tenth, the demand must have risen. He made a note to let the hunters know that bear would fetch a good price this year, in case the prices reflected a new trend. It was hardly a risk; it burned smokeless as lamp oil in the deep of winter, lacquered knife handles, bows, gun locks, stocks and barrels and a dozen other small necessities.\par
\ldblquote You have already cost me dearly on this trip and I cannot afford to lose on another deal,\rdblquote  The Trader\rquote s Vaicouric, dripped like unctuous summer syrup. Crater wished his own was as fluid. He was tall for a Golemel, wearing the same style of conservatively cut coat and pants as the Vaicour trader, with just a splash of color drawing the eye to the neckerchief amid the quiet whites and tans of the ensemble. The trader wore it better, of course. Crater couldn\rquote t hope to match the elegance of a Vaicour merchant or gentleman, but he would at least make the effort. Running contrary to the untamed manes his neighbors wore, his own beard was short and trim and the hands that peeked out of his coat sleeves were thin, delicate and black. They were so beautiful he was almost glad he\rquote d lost them. It had been a glorious war, one the minstrels would play songs of for three thousand year and somewhere, amid the ballads of summer wars in rice patties and tragic arias of martyrs giving their lives for their nation, there would be his song, the battle of Kulrathen where Crater of the Golemel led the charge. It would be a song of victory, and loss, of bravery and sacrifice. There had been sacrifice, but there was always sacrifice. Unthinkingly, the hands, rich and textured, black hands that were now his, clutched at air, as though trying to take the invisible hand of someone long gone. There was a scar along one thumb, a puckered memory made flesh that Crater would never know. \par
\ldblquote Can I tempt you? Drown your sorrows?\rdblquote  asked Crater the mouth of the skin wavered over the glass which he\rquote d bought from the Trader five years ago.\par
\tab\ldblquote Certainly, my friend,\rdblquote  the Trader said brightly, leaning back in his chair and smiling. \ldblquote Now perhaps a fellow business man might be interested in something special.\rdblquote  The trader accepted the glass graceful and pulled an elegant case out from the depths of one of his trunks. \ldblquote A clever business man like you can recognize an opportunity when he sees one. Look.\rdblquote  He opened the case with a flourish. Row upon row of finger vials sparkled like ice in a frozen waterfall. The trader selected one and proffered it to Crater who took it gingerly. \ldblquote Go ahead my friend, open it.\rdblquote  Crater did, and a scent of sweet amber blessed his nostrils. \par
\ldblquote Agarwood,\rdblquote  he whispered reverentially and the Trader nodded with the self satisfied expression of one who had already made the sale. \par
\ldblquote From across the Beryl sea.\rdblquote  Crater breathed again, deeply and the scent rose in his mind to the smell of money. There were plenty of young ladies in the village that one of the Trader\rquote s finger draughts would make swoon and with spring in the air and the right words, the young suitors would pay handsomely for the prize. \par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote d have an easier time selling snow,\rdblquote  Crater said dismissively, passing the vial back. \ldblquote I might be able to push these onto a few old crones pining for their youth, if I\rquote m lucky.\rdblquote  The Trader shrugged in calculated carelessness. \par
\ldblquote You\rquote re cutting your foot off to escape the snap. If I wasn\rquote t leaving tomorrow morning, I\rquote d sell them myself and walk away a rich man. But perhaps you\rquote ll see reason. Thirty a finger, and that\rquote s thievery.\rdblquote\par
\tab They haggled, firing offers and insults back and forth like lead shot. When at last they\rquote d agreed on a price, both cursing their misfortune to have met the other quite cheerfully, Crater poured them both another drink. From there, the talk made an about face to gunpowder, of which the Trader had brought several small, iron banded barrels, packed carefully amongst his other wares. He poured out equal charges from each, rolling the gritty powder into paper and following Crater into the warm summer sunshine, expounding on the new techniques out of Arenholm and the eprouvette which he had purchased there last winter. It looked like a hybrid between a one shot pistol and a compass, one arm of which would measure the power of the shot. Gunpowder was a finnicky thing, and Crater was particular that the powder the Trader sold was of the highest caliber. He\rquote d never been disappointed, but the retort and acrid smell brought him back to another summer\rquote s day, so many years ago.\par
\par
***\par
\par
\ldblquote Ah, Trader, I\rquote d heard you\rquote d arrived.\rdblquote  It was Parseek, summoned no doubt by the eprouvette\rquote s shots. He was smiling, but it was strained and the greeting was in Golemel, an overt sleight to match his wounded pride over the Trader coming to visit Crater first.  He approached them, a case under his arm and limping on Gorgem\rquote s left leg. Only parts of that poor woman had made it back from the war. Gorgem had been slightly shorter, though that was hardly the concerns of the surgeons at the time. Her left arm had been salvaged too, but the graft had putrified and the limb had rotted, poisoning Elena. She was dying in any case. There were sacrifices to be made in war. But Gorgem\rquote s leg on Parseek had always disquieted Crater. She had never liked their mayor, though he had just been the mayor\rquote s son back then. There were few enough villagers, born before or after the Unification, that liked him, but he was a necessary grievance, like one of Lina\rquote s purgatives that removed the bad blood even if it meant half a week sitting in the outhouse. He made sure the village ran without blockages or shortages, and he did it well. \par
\ldblquote Won\rquote t you invite me inside?\rdblquote  Parseek directed at Crater, smile still in place but Crater saw through the deliberately visible cracks in Parseek\rquote s polite manner. In some small way, the mayor would get even for Crater overstepping his bounds.\par
\ldblquote Certainly, won\rquote t you join us, Parseek?\rdblquote  Somehow, his Mayor\rquote s title had escaped him, but Hoar was sure to smile as he imagined a Vaicour gentleman might smile when his rival entered the ballroom. Whatever the man might try to take out of him, Crater could take it back and more. Their wills had skirmished at the too near boarder separating Hrullt\rquote s mayoral house and the shop since long before they went off to war, and it would likely continue until one of them released their dying breath in a thinly veiled insult. \par
Inside, Parseek set his case down on a table, firmly pushing the display of honey and candles from Kirch apiaries to the back. \ldblquote What, in your professional opinion, could you give me for this?\rdblquote  he asked, flipping the latches with a flourish. The Trader joined him by the mouth of the case, and Parseek moved casually aside, blocking Crater from joining them without toppling the stack of furs. Crater smiled a polite, brittle little smile. The Trader glanced to Crater somewhat apologetically, Crater thought, but bent to examine its contents. \par
\ldblquote Hmm, I\rquote m afraid it isn\rquote t in the best condition, my friend. There\rquote s wire holding it together.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It is used, but it\rquote s been marvelously maintained, see the repair work on the bowl? No, you can\rquote t. It\rquote s near invisible. I\rquote d put it\rquote s worth around 220.\rdblquote  \par
Crater was craning his neck as unobtrusively as possible to see the object of contention. \ldblquote Now that is steep,\rdblquote  the Trader said bluntly, not bothering with complaints or curses of bankruptcy and beggaring. \ldblquote I\rquote d say a flat 160, maybe 165.\rdblquote\par
Parseek\rquote s smile flickered, \ldblquote I see. Well, the value of owning it for me is certainly worth more than 165, thank you. But I have other items which we may be able to come to an agreement over back at my home. As he closed the case, Crater finally caught a glimpse, but a glimpse was enough. He felt his calm veneer begin to burn away.\par
\ldblquote Where did you get that?\rdblquote\par
 Parseek ignored Crater as though he were a somewhat ugly piece of furniture that, as a guest, he was too polite to mention. He addressed the Trader. \ldblquote When will you be done, here?\par
The Trader, sweating despite the cool, took refuge in Vaicour manners. \ldblquote Mayor Parseek, my business here is almost done. I trust you will still be available to discuss the price of gold?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I may be available. I am a busy man,\rdblquote  the mayor said, as chilly as a mountain stream that had been cheeked by an uppity fish. \par
Parseek,\rdblquote  Crater growled at the same pitch a dog growled just before it leapt.  \par
\ldblquote Friends, if you need to discuss things-\rdblquote\par
Parseek silenced him with a glance and turned back to face his host. He noted the rising color and the vein pulsing in Crater\rquote s forehead with apparent detachment. \ldblquote I am speaking with this fine gentleman right now. Go back to whatever dreadfully important things you were doing.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You will tell me where you got that.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Corporal, do not order a superior officer. I will deal with you later,\rdblquote  Parseek snapped. Crater recoiled, as though his rifle had unexpectedly gone off. Parseek ignored this, focusing his attention on the Trader, \ldblquote You will tell me your news as well, I am very interested in the affairs of the delta.\rdblquote\par
News in a town like Hrullt was like the honey comb gum the Trader, and vicariously Crater, pedaled. It was chewed over and over until it was nothing but tasteless white wax clogging the gaps where teeth had been. Crater imagined his sergeant\rquote s teeth scattering across his store\rquote s floor like carnivorous hail. He turned scooped up a box of papers and went back to the dreadfully important things he had been doing. \par
\ldblquote I was hoping you would have news for me. Has your Link received any far cry messages about Ravnasill?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We do not permit a Link here,\rdblquote  Parseek said icily, \ldblquote Why.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh, nothing really,\rdblquote  the Trader said. He remembered the small, two story brick building he\rquote d seen in Arenholm last season with the \ldblquote For Lease,\rdblquote  sign, hanging in the window. He might have been there now, if not for the lure of rising fur prices in the delta and the dream of one last payoff and buying outright. \ldblquote Nothing at all. It was fine when I passed through a week ago, but a day\rquote s journey up the mountain something woke me and the poor donkeys. I couldn\rquote t get a clear view, but there was a red glow bellow. I\rquote d wondered if there\rquote d been a fire. It\rquote s all thatch and fieldstone down there.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You\rquote re the only outsider we\rquote ve had in a month. If there had been a fire, I\rquote m sure the military is already there, setting things straight.\rdblquote\par
Parseek was likely right, though Crater would never have admitted it. The Peace Core had garrisons in every major city, and roaming patrols for the protection of the people. After the reconstruction, most patrols had skilled builders as well as soldiers. He might have gone back down there, but he would have been homesick for his mountains sitting around on his helmet, doing nothing more exciting that clearing rubble and overseeing the laying of roads. If there was another war, things would be different. He longed for the thrill of it, the challenge, the fight. Here, at peace, he\rquote d have to make do.\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m sure you\rquote ll make a tidy little profit off them the next time you come through,\rdblquote  Parseek said but was cut off when a blast like a small cannon went off. The result was instantaneous, Parseek dropped into a half crouch, heavy cane whistling up, poised to bayonet the threat. His head swung about wildly, neck so tense a muscle might have snapped, eyes searching. And found Crater, calmly loading another carefully measured shot into the eprouvette. \par
\tab\ldblquote What in the seven angel\rquote s names are you doing.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Hmm? Oh, sorry, just checking the quality of the gun powder. It\rquote s my dreadfully important business see, can\rquote t have shoddy powder. I would have warned you, but didn\rquote t want to disturb whatever dreadfully important business you were up to in my shop. Please carry on.\rdblquote\par
\tab He pointed the eprouvette at the ceiling and fired again, watching in satisfaction the mayor jump. Parseek forced himself to lower the cane. He gave Crater a look that should have boiled him inside his skin. \par
\tab\ldblquote We will continue this conversation in a quieter local,\rdblquote  he said to the Trader, and made for the door, limping along stiffly as though her were crude, windup soldier. \par
\tab\ldblquote Going so soon? Please, stay,\rdblquote  Crater said, firing the eprouvette again. \par
\tab When the smoke cleared, Parseek was gone. Crater managed to hold it together for three full seconds and then burst out with hacking coughs from the inhalation. \par
\tab\ldblquote Fine gun powder you have,\rdblquote  he said to the Trader, carefully placing the testing device back into its case. He stopped, running his fingers over the mole skin interior.\par
\tab\ldblquote Spike me,\rdblquote  he cursed, the spoke to the Trader who was wistfully thinking of lath and plaster and bricks he could call his own. \ldblquote I\rquote m sorry to cut this short, but I have to close up the shop. You\rquote ll be back to finish up our business?\rdblquote\par
\tab The Trader seemed surprised, \ldblquote I thought we would be finishing things up now? Something amiss?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I hope not. I have to pay a visit to an old friend.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That doesn\rquote t sound so bad?\rdblquote  the Trader said bemusedly, trying to get his samples together. \par
\tab\ldblquote If I come back with an arrow between my eyes, the store is yours my friend.\rdblquote  The Trader laughed an ingratiating, merchandise moving laugh. Then he saw the expression on Crater\rquote s face. \par
\tab\ldblquote You\rquote re serious?\rdblquote  He looked about the store, imagining for the first time settling down here. \par
But Crater wasn\rquote t done. \ldblquote And when you sell to Parseek, make sure to spike the bastard.\rdblquote\par
\par
\pard\fi180\li90\cf0\f1\par
}
