{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\fi180\li90\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf1\f0\fs20\tab Lieutenant Takken stood a dozen paces from his soldiers and, to any of his sullenly watching command, was attempting to slowly and steadily work his head free from its mooring. First, he would swivel his neck to peer expectantly at the western skyline, fiddling apprehensively with his brightly shined, lieutenant\rquote s bars. Then, as if the moldering hovel was some enormous predator, sagging roof and twisted chimney creeping closer whenever he turned his back he would whip around, pinning it to the earth with his gaze. If anything, the ground was creeping up, over the building slowly but surely turning the one room hut into basement real-estate. Corporal Anya, whose spittle laced instructions were to shoot anyone \ldblquote Or anything. Even if they- it looks human. They were given clear orders. Just following protocol,\rdblquote  watched her commander\rquote s head make another violent arc. She, very carefully and very deliberately, didn\rquote t look to the pile of helmets, rifles and jackets that lay like the epidermal peel of an animal that had just been skinned. Nor did she look to south, where what everything that had been Lower Ravnasill lay. None of the twenty-four less three company clustered at the base of the predawn hill did. At least up here with the Lt., she couldn\rquote t smell the pyre. With her stomach roiling as it was, she didn\rquote t think she\rquote d be able to eat pork ever again.\par
\tab A sudden squawk, like a chicken giving itself a concussion, drew her attention away from the smell that still burned in her nostrils long after the fires had banked. Lieutenant. Takken\rquote s vigil was at an end. Several of the soldiers on the trail to Ravnasill noticed as well. A light had appeared in the western sky, like an echo of the sunset. As the light grew in intensity and size, wings of ghostly fire, flickering from rosy purple to blue, appeared. It was mesmerizing, beautiful; if she hadn\rquote t seen it once before, she might have thought Orturiel himself was descending. The TRU (Tactical Response Unit) hit Prime half a kilometer up. Seven seconds after, the sound wave hit like thunderclap making the tops of trees dance. It wasn\rquote t long after the Templars arrived. \par
\tab In theory, that should have siphoned the tension of the hillside away. When the Templars came, it wasn\rquote t your responsibility anymore. Not your operation, not your command, not your fault. Except it still was. Anya smelled what a day ago she might have mistook for burning pork and tried not to cringe as the Templar commander crested the hill and strode toward them in silver and gold like the judgment she was. \par
\tab\ldblquote Lieutenant,\rdblquote  she said. It was a hard voice, and sharp, like a flint broken of any smooth edges.\par
\tab Lieutenant Takken saluted smartly. He seemed to have gotten ahold of himself, finally, and addressed the Templar. \ldblquote Lieutenant Takken, Pacification division three.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You were the one to report possible buried Ursar in the Ravnasill environs.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Not just possible. We found them, two sir, maybe more. My soldier had established an entry point on the southern and eastern-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Where is Lower Ravnasill?\rdblquote  The Templar said flatly, cutting through the Lieutenant\rquote s stream of consciousness like a shark. \par
\tab\ldblquote Just there, sir,\rdblquote  the Lieutenant said, pointing nervously south, a grin playing about the corners of his mouth like a child gamboling about quarry\rquote s precipice.\par
\tab\ldblquote No. Ravnasill is a crossroads town. It has an inn, The Quill and Arms. It has fifty-three people, half farmers and half servicing travelers and it has a memorial to the six sons and daughters who came home in pieces. That,\rdblquote  she pointed south, \ldblquote is a pile of charcoal, a funeral pyre, and a desecrated stone,\rdblquote  her voice remained level, and steady, but Anya shuddered still. \par
\tab Takken, on the other hand, was still bent on spilling his tale for the world. \ldblquote Yes, we got them! Sir, it was an amazing battle. We had established entry points to the south and east when I sent for the Templars. But they must have gotten wind of us, the Ursars, I mean, because not half an hour after I sent for you-\rdblquote\par
\tab A villager, in his mid-forties missing his two front teeth and with all the luck of a lightning rod in a storm had stumbled into their position. But Anya did not say any of this. If she opened her mouth, something a bit more might escape. \par
\tab\ldblquote A man working for the Ursars attacked out southern foothold,\rdblquote  finished the Lieutenant almost breathlessly. \ldblquote My soldiers took him down but he\rquote d served his purpose, he\rquote d alerted the Ursars to our presence. We had to spring into action to save the moment.\rdblquote\par
\tab He\rquote d practically tripped over Jarred and Jarred hadn\rquote t thought. Then everything in that moment that could go wrong, did go wrong. After, much after, Anya had found Jared, pale as willow bark and shaking. She didn\rquote t know if it was because of shooting that fool man or what had happened after.\par
\tab\ldblquote My troops had the village surrounded and I gave the order to advance.\rdblquote\par
\tab The second Jarred\rquote s shots rang out, the nervous, trigger ready platoon panicked.\par
\ldblquote We had to follow protocol. If a pacification platoon or company encounters Ursar or indications of Ursar within a civilian population-\rdblquote\par
\tab -they are to quarantine the area and summon Templars. No living thing is to be allowed to leave the cordon. All potentially exposed soldiers are to be confined until proven clean. Lieutenant Takken had made sure they were clean. Corporal Anya stood guard before the last standing house of Lower Ravnasill and listened to the story unfold all wrong. Whatever skill Takken lacked for command, he made up for with the ability to tell extravagant, exquisitely crafted lies. Perhaps he even believed them himself, who knew? Anya listened with disgust the story of a bumbling pacification platoon that had never before seen combat pulled together by a heroic lieutenant. There was the tragic and regrettable but entirely necessary pacification of Lower Ravnasill. Pacification, not slaughter, no, never slaughter. Then there were the Ursar. If Takken was to be believed, half of Ravnasill were buried Ursar. If she hadn\rquote t been at the little farmhouse a hundred paces from the crossroads, she would have thought every word was horse shit. But she had, and she\rquote d seen what the Ursar had made out of itself, and what it had done to Sanders, Vivi, Half boots and KT. Then the Lieutenant, reaching the climax of his story, looked the Templar in the face and told her that he had killed the Ursar himself, \ldblquote run it through with this very bayonet, I did. Vivian had thrown herself in front of me, shielding me from the burns. She sacrificed herself, she did.\rdblquote  Anya had to respect the slight tremor, the careful setting of his jaw as he told the lie. She\rquote d often wondered how Takken had made Lieutenant at twenty two, and now she didn\rquote t have to. Anyone who could go from cowering behind a field stone wall, shrieking orders to anyone who would listen as his sergeant was burned from the inside out to telling a Templar he was a war hero had a certain kind of guts. She supposed she ought to hate him for it, but all she felt were cold, slimy slithers of guilt that came from her part in the story, her silence, what she and all of them had done. \ldblquote I felt the thing die on my steel. Let me tell you, it\rquote s not something I\rquote ll soon forget. I only wish I had killed it sooner. My soldiers had already been exposed.\rdblquote\par
\tab The Templar looked at him impassively. She had listened to every word the man had spoken without comment, her silvered visor betraying nothing of the face within. The Lieutenant could not see her gaze rake his ashy, grimy but definitively not bloody hands as he drew the scene of his triumph in the air, nor could he see the burning anger that reflected the still smoldering cinders of The Quill and Arms. \par
\tab\ldblquote I see,\rdblquote  she said with brittle calm. This quieted the Lieutenant, though did not shake his certainty in the story he had woven so expertly.\par
\tab\ldblquote I wish to see the exposed troops, to verify their sanctity,\rdblquote  whether by chance or by divine providence, the wind died and her gun metal voice was heard across the hillside by every soldier lost in the pitfalls dug by their own minds. No one said anything for a second, and then the Lieutenant cleared his voice.\par
\tab\ldblquote Right this way, though I\rquote d be careful if I were you. I did everything I could think of to pacify them, but Ursar are tricky. We\rquote ve kept them under close guard.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Thank you for your warning, Lieutenant. I\rquote ll try to keep it in mind.\rdblquote\par
\tab Anya\rquote s eyes strayed to the blade at the woman\rquote s hip. It was short, thick and did not sway with the intermittent wind. Angel steel, she guessed, and shivered. She\rquote d heard stories of Templars wielding those, and the rifle slung across her back looked capable of turning a horse into pink spray. The woman was just as good an actor as Takken, if she could say accept his patronizing caution with a level voice.\par
\tab With a horror, dulled by the numb blanket of sickness that had fallen over seemingly every member of the platoon except one, Corporal Anya realized the monster killer was approaching her. She straightened into a salute which was met with a nod. A mailed hand landed on her shoulder, as lightly as a ten-ton butterfly graciously choosing not to crush her.\par
\tab\ldblquote It will all be over soon, like none of this ever happened,\rdblquote  whispered the Templar. It was only after she had swept past, through the slanted door that Anya realized there had been a note of kindness threaded through the harsh voice. Anya wished the woman would find something else beneath the earth. The hilltop held its breath as the Templar found what lay interred within the cold earth and held it, and held it. A prickle of predawn light was spreading its fingers of light across the east when she reemerged. She was helmetless, and Anya was startled to see that her tightly curling black hair was cropped short. For some reason, she\rquote d imagined her as having long, flowing locks like some knight ridden out of the old tales. \par
She walked straight up to the Lieutenant, face as cold and unmoving as the helmet had been. \ldblquote Lieutenant Takken, it occurs to me that you may benefit from a reassignment. Someplace closer to home I think.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Sir? Is there something wrong?\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote I was under the impression that you had quarantined three soldiers who had been exposed, is that correct?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes, sir,\rdblquote  the Lieutenant snapped off another salute, \ldblquote Any human exposed to Ursar must be immediately neutralized and placed into quarantine, as per protocol sir!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Neutralized,\rdblquote  echoed the Templar.\par
\ldblquote Drastic situations call for drastic actions. Anything could have been incubating inside them.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote So, you emptied a magazine into their skulls?\rdblquote  The way she had said it triggered some, deeply buried and suppressed instinct for self preservation, but the Lieutenant was too deep in his story.\par
\ldblquote Protocol is quite clear there. The Ursar might have planted anything inside them before I killed it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It might have.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote Sir, I would like to request the medal of bravery.\rdblquote\par
\tab The Templar raised an eyebrow. \ldblquote Really for whom?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote For my late sergeant, dying the line of duty. His actions were heroic and deserving of honors,\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And I suppose you would request the same for yourself?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote If you think I merit it,\rdblquote  he said, generously.\par
\tab The Templar regarded the Lieutenant like a something she\rquote d found adhering to the sole of her boot. \ldblquote I think, that you should take my offer of reassignment. I think you should be transferred straight away.\rdblquote\par
\tab The Lieutenant blanched. \ldblquote But sir, the award ceremony. I can\rquote t leave my command without seeing them properly honored.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It might be dangerous to stay in your current position. Your soldiers may have a different view of last night\rquote s events.\rdblquote\par
\tab Takken\rquote s head whipped around, as though now it was his own company creeping up on him. Then he faced the Templar. \ldblquote There were Ursar everywhere. I\rquote m afraid one or any of them might have been exposed.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And all exposed soldiers are to be confined until proven clean,\rdblquote  the Templar said with finality. \par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m grateful that you understand,\rdblquote  the Lieutenant said. \par
\ldblquote I do understand.\rdblquote  A touch of sorrow had entered the Templars words. Anya felt as though the woman had just cut her throat. Speech, air, breathe they were all suddenly impossible. In numb betrayal, she watched the Templar rest a friendly hand on the Lieutenant\rquote s shoulder. He staggered from the weight. \par
\ldblquote You\rquote re a graduate from Arenholm Academy, aren\rquote t you?\rdblquote  Her tone was suddenly friendly, cheerful, almost as if she were greeting an old friend.\par
\ldblquote Graduated just a year ago, top five percent of my class and captain of the orator\rquote s team as well.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Really? That\rquote s very impressive. I never went to Academy.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh, you\rquote ve done fine for yourself,\rdblquote  Lieutenant Takken said graciously. \par
\ldblquote Nothing like you. You graduated top five percent-\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Four percent, not that it matters,\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote Oh, silly me. Four percent. You must know an awful lot about fighting then, and tactics,\rdblquote  her voice had taken on a vapid tone, seemingly shedding years off her weathered basalt face.\par
\ldblquote I specialized in logistics. In my final quarter I-\rdblquote\par
But he never finished his sentence. The hand that had rested in such a friendly manner on his shoulder had clamped around his throat. To her horror, Anya witnessed her commanding officer lifted off his feet by his through, his hands scrabbling uselessly against the Templar\rquote s plate. \ldblquote I was in the vanguard on Kulrathen. I broke the siege of Ruhiem. I\rquote ve torn Ursar to pieces with my bare hands, stupid child,\rdblquote  she threw him then, like a rag doll. Every eye was on him as he rolled to a bleeding, quivering heap. The Templar descended on him like the wrath of God. \ldblquote And even blind and broken I could still see that carrying your wounded and dying out of the hell of lead and steel was the right thing to do, no matter the cost.\rdblquote\par
On the ground, the Lieutenant choked for air. Above him the Templar drew her angel steel blade. It was matte grey, and ugly. Nothing like the shining weapon of Angels Anya had expected and it was echoed by a cavalcade steel being slid home. Appearing like specters from the brush, fully armored Templar rose, rifles locked and shouldered. Any thoughts of coming to their commander\rquote s aid died. These were Templars. You can\rquote t fight Templars. \par
 She spoke in a ringing, voice, the soldiers who had once been Takken\rquote s hearing with dead ears and seeing with cold eyes. \ldblquote If a pacification platoon or company encounters Ursar or indications of Ursar within a civilian population they are to quarantine the area and summon Templars. No living thing is to be allowed to leave the cordon. Lieutenant Takken. My Templars have found forty-six bodies in the village. That leaves seven your inescapable cordon let slip through, including the two buried Ursars.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Impossible, they\rquote re dead!\rdblquote  Takken managed, his voice going from rasp to panic. \par
\ldblquote All potentially exposed soldiers are to be confined until proven clean,\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I was only following protocol. I had to!\rdblquote  screamed the Lieutenant as he was lifted up again by the jacket. \par
\ldblquote You were exposed, Lieutenant, when you ran it through with your bayonet.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I didn\rquote t! I wasn\rquote t! I didn\rquote t run it through, per say, I shot it, from a long way away. I wasn\rquote t exposed, I swear.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Corporal,\rdblquote  the Templar\rquote s hazel eyes touched Anya\rquote s and the world waited. She saw the tears running down Takken\rquote s face, the spreading wetness of his pants and almost told the truth. Then, she saw Vivi\rquote s bubbled corpse hurled by what the Ursar had made from three men, and set her back.\par
\ldblquote He was exposed,\rdblquote  she said, and was pleased that her voice did not waver. \par
\ldblquote Just following protocol,\rdblquote  the Templar said baring predatory teeth, all white enamel and pink gums as though they were display pieces that had never encountered the taint of food. The angel steel went through him like hot metal through snow. She dropped him, gasping and clutching at the blood that welled from the wound as though somehow he could stop the red tide. \par
\ldblquote When is an Ursar most dangerous?\rdblquote  The blood stained woman bellowed.\par
\ldblquote When it has nothing left to lose!\rdblquote  chorused her Templars.\par
\ldblquote What are we?\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote The monsters that kill monsters!\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote They have six hours head start and we have seven trails to follow. Move out.\rdblquote\par
\pard\fi180\li90\cf0\f1\par
}
